B_NOV_WASH_1

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 3, 2019 • 7:45 AM
North Carolina new calls to fight a growing number of cops killing themselves is diagnosed with
post-traumatic stress which she suffered a group of 13 years at this year's international
Association of Chiefs of police conference in Chicago finding solutions for a disturbing trend in
officers suicides was top of mind ges McCarthy understands the importance of speaking up her
husband Paul a 21 year veteran of the Massachusetts state police took his own life in 2006 the
culture needs to change its that culture which she calls a fear by police officers against
expressing their emotional and mental health that may be contributing to the increased police
suicide rate she believes her husband's suicide was brought on by his mental and physical
struggle after he was run over by a bus while on the job every time suck it up and go away in a
way and it's the Department didn't know what to do with that earlier this year President Trump
authorized 7.5 million dollars annually for the next 5 years for national police suicide Prevention
efforts including mental health screening and more train assist solve it and it was broken
enjoying arms and and to talk about his style who were not meant to do this by ourselves we're
not meant to suppress some this detective matt horton has been with Zion police Department
in illinois for 16 years it's very very difficult don't admit to bottoming out from the demands of
the job and planning to take his own life crying and world this plant in See lady walking in a
parking lot next strict I of ours she's not red cross and she said you need this and he was the
most surreal moment of my life he says that moment changed his life and made him realize he
needed to reach out for help something cops don't often do he's come to the floor for a
because of security I'm sick I'm sick crying because I can see the signs I live Norton says he's
made it a point in his life to help fellow officers in need some departments do have trained
mental health professionals on staff for support but there doesn't appear to be a national
standard for treatment or even the data to know what's really needed or available.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 3, 2019 • 2:40 AM

B_NOV_WASH_2

girls have mental health deteriorates it she attempted suicide the enchanting became too much
heidi Prez she moved into special accommodation mesh was placed him into bisexual alaska's it
was bad she took her life for TVA is heidi heitkamp Dungeness plane and other possessions on
touched a couple books stacked by her front door an animal it's contacted half heidi plucked up
the courage to take on that but even though she knew she would find disturbing material she
wasn't repat for what she found country had a series of private Instagram accounts hiding
nothing about I'm jane had posted a staggering 15 100 times and elsewhere months of her life
it took two days to newsroom told and phone insurers need your elves thanks some of them
loss might find me someone to me is my guess is so good to see good a life because she was so
1

joyful world and she showed that talk of our to deal with that country in his own name Heidi
champion video adored price A self-down saying to favor so I liked it so I'm not sure I love
construction I can again bunking involved saying all along the floor of not pay is still commander
in chief himself com who should fight on both that a kid dose writers to be before she died
when she said seriously I can't take it anymore can just someone just killed me to the hora I
discovered on jane had been active on Instagram in the moments before his suicide she told
her father was exactly what she was about to date several people commented on the price
banking panel to kill herself to us polls thing our preparation to the suicide so it was almost like
she must screaming her Yeah ivey decides to let adult is fine be used for the investigation by
Adam utsa then okay agent last gaining access to on dream is a secret Instagram account meant
I'm politic could view the net wet from the inside she wasn't fazed has set off a few 100 as
profile she could have held secret online community sometimes rewarded self com could
normalize suicidal thoughts I very quickly and discovered that when you pose serious cyber
stuff for yourself com you get no attention then ran this bone duffy our feelings and more
support you get from the community you didn't stop saying the attraction why people want to
be called a consent has slowed since the colt Knost attention they saw a hunting Kony the main
don't believe that they can get help or anywhere else they feel misunderstand my health care is
I'm Montana colleagues sees digital forensic techniques to find out as much as they head about
launching online connections so when we got the phone we were able to get fined and Remus
following this which was only about a 100 is fact it yells but then we went one step out so to
step out from a thing is following a half following this I have a list follows 3 painstaking analysis
and detective work I'm a mom and her colleagues identified more than 1000 similar private
prayer falls all within two steps on dream the picture matched the secret network of accounts
sharing the stabbing and dangerous content in reality it wasn't a single that what they didn't all
fall each other it was a cluster of trouble girls and young women these sleek connected to social
media about Hoffa 1000 say profiles Norwegians think needed at least 15 pills he killed
themselves in the pos 3 inches Meanwhile high D gained a new perspective on had told his staff
I've seen in a lost its pollster them call showed us on got that instagram community can and
card of a deal the guards it has said they realized that instagram missing it to my adult life that's
what I feel blindly feeling the cause longer of the Guns in these the ground lost my Hood all
Yeah it's what she had done so one moves to show everything to so I feel like if she did you had
instagram she would have seek more help in real life won't be think choose many onions not
ecation and lunch for me I cannot different ways how to self-harm and different place take her
own life the way she did I think she learned it from the Internet in February instagram
announcing it would ban all graphic images of self called so how has this affected the network
on Malta's tracking on this fade there's less of a graphic contents on instagram I feel like it's
going and direction where it still means to bomb the culling more underground it's less graphic
that even more suicidal night when we go not posting and suicide attempts they will Post needy
nations and lying then bent saying in the text I don't want to live anymore I've got all my plans
sorts of things happening today that's a dangerous combination and that's what instagram is
helped renew me at the moment because I've been waking up images of cellphone mice his
source material science potentially dangerous of the fear is they control Gallery encourage
already vulnerable people to self Palm or attempt suicide themselves the program is an
instagram like other social media wat spiking this mall of what it thinks we won't Instagrams of
2

them recommend you other calcified because that prized in this sort of content we've already
showing some interested in Instagram sending February that they were not going to
recommend get also uses who had posted harmful content a dangerous material to other uses
but we've seen in just the past few weeks we've been able to see how the nation knows who
tried to kill themselves and posting this on instagram in the same day of being recommended
two other goes on the left who have like use names so suicide ago for instance so I get out of
this trying to kill herself is being recommended S someone suicidal go online don't follow.
KOAB (PBS)
Nov 3, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_1

there was one gun death in japan last year. s arealike syria whu ere yohave a lot of wars going
on, we even have more gun violence than they do in terms of number of people that die. the
number of people that die from suicide is also astounding. we have been looking at the
correlation between access to guns and gun safety, and areas where you have more access to
guns and lax laws , there is more death. there was a total correlation. i think one of the things
that is the most ridiculous about it it's it is the only issue in the history of the country that i'm
aware of where we literally passed legislation, which i voted against, that said you cannot even
study gun safety. that was reversed. senator markey and i for years had built into reverse that
language and fund it. it has been reversed and we have passed a bill of $50 million to the house
to fund gun violence and gun safety. if you look at cars, we study it all the time, and that's why
cars get safer and safer and safer, because we study car safety. why not -- a gun is far more
lethal. we have tried so many ways to try to change people's minds and is just common sense
that background checks save lives. just something like a trigger safety or locking up your guns.
or the safe guns only responders to the owner's hand? those measures should save lives, but
we stand alone in these lax laws. if you looked at -- it was new zealand where they had a
massive slaughter of people, 59 people killed within two weeks. the parliament came to, gether
they passed a series of gun safety laws. england had done that, australia, most european union,
why not america? we are trying. >> cari: yes, you are trying. you are coming out with different
reports. one was like the economic cost of gun violence. what is the economic cost of gun
violence? what do you think that would be a -- be something you could use to sway public
opinion and guests way n opiniond congress because public opinion is for morgan safety? >>
rep. maloney: well, that's true. it's important to understand what it would mean if we could
pass some of these gun safety laws. working with the gifford institute for gun safety, we did a
report that shows it would be roughly 20 200 billion a year saved mainly through lost work .
usually, the person who was killed his prime breadwinner often times. also hospital costs, legal
service costs, jails , judiciary, just a number of costs associated with it. and just trying to make
the argument for many different directions of why we need -- obviously the biggest loss is
lawful of life. that should be november 1. that alone is passage of -- >> cari: it was just not
restricted to mass shootings. every time we have a mass shooting, there seems to be a little bit
of movement, but you looked at a number of other factors like suicides. why is that important
to the study and to your goal of gun safety? >> rep. maloney: they were such a large percentage
of deaths by suicide. they are roughly 129 people a year, a day -- i would think a year would be
more appropriate but 129 at die a day due to suicides primarily with guns. over 47,000 a year .
3

there are certain risk factors that we saw come out, being a white male, older white male living
in a rural country like montana or colorado where there is, you know, there is lax gun laws ,
there is more deaths by guns. >> cari: what is the response that you have head to the reports?
>> rep. maloney: well, we did in collaboration with the brady and the giffords, my former
colleague. just raising awareness, just another way to talk about a very serious problem. the
need to get mitch mcconnell to move some of these bills that we are sitting over to him that
are on his desk, like background checks. >> cari: what are the bills? what bills are over there
that have to do with gun safety? >> rep. maloney: i would say the $50 million appropriation to
study gun safety, i would say the background checks is there, also the so-called gun show
loophole that does away with a waiting period, the charleston loophole that allows quick and
way to get a gun, to buy a gun. those are the three there. but back in 1994, president clinton
signed into law a ban on assault weapons, a ban on the massacre magazines, and background
checks. background checks never passed. but the ban on assault weapons, and we saw gun
violence fall because of these bans . it's really to me, these assault weapons, these are weapons
of war. they are just used to kill people, to kill people as quickly as possible. so why are you
selling these two youngsters that have gone into walmart and places of assembly and into
schools ? it's just tragic. as a former schoolteacher and as a former student, we used to be
afraid because of the nuclear bomb may come or whatever. these kids, they are terrified
because they are having these -- they are going through these practices for when the gunman
comes. when child said -- i talked to her one time and she said -- how was your day? my day
was really bad. why? because i had to sit near the door where the gunman might come in . so
they are being raised in these areas with this total fear of their environment. but it's a wellfounded fear. we have sony mass shootings, more than any other country. we stand alone in
the number of mass shootings. it's sort of released really frustrates me is that we have so many
issues that we don't have an at answer to such as security cancer.we know what to do. we
know what steps you can take to make the environment safer. one bullet or one idea does not
solve everything, but you could add liability insurance to guns so you would be studying ways to
make them safer as we do with cars. i mean, a gun is far more deadly than a car, yet we have
liability insurance for cars but not for guns. there such a pushback from the nra on any effort to
move forward with steps for gun safety. >> cari: do you have any support from your republican
colleagues. >> rep. maloney: we have some support for background checks. the wind bill that
had some b or three republicans on it was a bill that was such common sense that even the nra
has not come out against it, and that was making these selling of guns, illegal guns a felony. it's
not even a felony now. we were having a hearing in the committee on reform about violence at
the border in the law enforcement people testified that they don't even bother to to arrest gun
dealers because the laws are so lax. it's like a slap on the hand. but i would think selling illegal
guns and trading in them should be a felony . it's just common sense. and we had an incident in
new york right after the massacre of the children in connecticut. after each one of these huge
mass incidents, you know the government is going to act. i just know that it's so outrageous, so
wrong, so cruel that were going to act. and yet, we just cannot pass these laws. the democrats
have passed three laws. they are sitting on mitch mcconnell's desk. i hope you will act on them.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 4, 2019 • 2:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_2

4

County jails across the Pacific northwest suicide is a single leading cause of inmate deaths but a
new analysis by the PD shows the region's prisons aren't playing by the same crisis Connor
Wilson reports I With the course of the last decade suicide accounted for 47% of jail that's with
unknown cause an Oregon and Washington that's according to an investigation earlier this year
by a P P K know W and the Northwest News network now a new analysis shows suicides in
northwest prisons during the same time period are fraction just 6% of deaths in those facilities
be easy analysis covers the first region-wide look that compares suicides in prisons in local jails
prisons primarily hold people serving sentences for crimes deals largely hold people awaiting
trial experts say prisons have lower suicide rate in part because there's less uncertainty about
an inmate's future compared to what a person is first arrested jails also killed more people in
crisis because of substance use disorders and mental illness.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 4, 2019 • 3:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_3

when a person is convicted of a crime in Oregon or Washington where they end up serving that
time can drastically affect what types of services are available for rehabilitation and in cases
where the right kinds of services don't exist people can die that's why the PD's Conrad Wilson
has spent the last year investigating circumstances that led to deaths in northwest jails for
ongoing series book and barry he joins me now To talk about how the Northwest's jails
compared to prisons in the region and Conrad done so real quick to listen to what the findings
were hurt during your investigation into northwest jail that's so we went county-by-county we
polled hundreds of public records looking at more than a decade a joke us across Oregon
Washington with between 2008 and 2018 more than 300 people died in jails across the
northwest suicide is the leading cause of death in jails was nearly 50% where there was no
cause of death we found the jails across the region like all the necessary resources to deal with
people who are coming through the door I mean that's especially true for mental illness but
also other health care needs people experiencing withdraw from substances like alcohol and
drugs and now you've been looking into similar data for how often people died in prisons but
real quick just what is the difference between jail and prison Durso said Gilles largely hold
people who are awaiting trial I'm sure people Joe had recently been arrested on the often
coming and going from court and you know working on their case prisons primarily House
people have been convicted of a crime so that Gaza the trial Lord they've pleaded guilty to
charges another serving their sentence which most of the time is many years or even decades
and what have you found about how deaths in prison compared to the deaths in County jails
about half the people died by suicide in jails only 6% died by suicide in prison during the last
decade in terms of death Unlike Gilles knows people imprisoned died of natural causes but this
particular story the main thing we looked at was suicides we just found a lot fewer people died
by suicide in oregon Washington prisons and jails 50% to 6% of deaths that's really substantial
difference and it seems like it might imply that there's a big difference between how jails and
prisons are operated or the staffing there but that's not exactly what your reporting is finding
what have you found about why there are so many more suicides in northwest jail it's a lot of it
has to do with where the inmates are when someone goes to jail it is the worst day of their life
5

and for most people it's not something they've never experienced for this story spoke with
many people who study the criminal Justice system and in a couple of reasons emerged
instability was a major factor and really where people are out and obviously what I mean by
that the people in jails are closer to the crisis that led to their arrest and jailing most of the time
they have a criminal charge or charges hanging over their heads and there's uncertainty about
what's going to happen and worry and Throgs imprisons those factors tend to be less
pronounced Ingels there are some mental health issues and substance abuse disorders that are
more pronounced that can lead to a greater risk of suicides them and experts say really it's a
combination of a lot of these factors the jails facing mental illness and substance abuse and
instability he can put all that together it really creates a higher risk for people in jail forces side
but you know Unfortunately it sounds like some of those issues almost surge just in herron to
jails is this a problem that can be fixed jail staff say they are definitely trying but they also say
that their new mental hospitals and dealing with the way more challenging population than
they used to in many cases they need more resources on top of that Joe officials say their
facilities are overcrowded and understaffed on the other hand out you could say the deals just
can't throw their hands judges because their populations are challenging doesn't mean that
they're off the hook visit counties and public health officials need to be more proactive and
helping people with mental health issues or substance-abuse disorders before they ever
encounter police officers so that they don't end up in jail parent Conrad thank you you're
welcome John and the PD's Conrad Wilson who covers criminal Justice in Oregon and
Washington for more on our investigation into jail that's booked in buried you can visit our
website.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Nov 4, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_NOV_WASH_3

I told myself I know it could be what I knew was even as simultaneously started rearranging and
Resale in my body to start accepting that Yes it is Yes I need that what's I got up off the floor
where had slapped shut myself to the kitchen door I was 14 years old I opened the door which
opened on a carport and called out into the thick early morning from mom gum that didn't turn
my head to the left barney they probably were in the darkness was merciful enough to give me
no peripheral vision and she stared straight ahead as I call her one time not again I knew there
was no need to repeat myself and I wasn't surprised when there was no response I couldn't
step outside I turned around to go back to the living room the Mets seemed Carolina headed in
a direction Carolyn said something about hearing much she thought might have been a gun and
that she looked into mom's bedroom and it was empty I mean mom wasn't in her bedroom and
I knew she was outside that I haven't confirmed it with my next Sisi tip she walks straight out
the front door and the approaching morning she then walked back inside Carolina keep Allison
in the House it momma and Daddy I'm going to go get help that's Allyson Lara reading from her
new memoir which is called blood he'll point though really just a horrible things in terms of
your father did is he didn't think of you and your sister and I mean shut your mother and killed
her then killed himself that's are going to move but he left to our offense behind any left both
was the most traumatic memories and that strikes me as being so selfish I mean it is obvious to
selfishness very underwhelming court Hughes hip but it does it trouble you how little he
6

thought about you when he did this horrific action I'm pretty sure he did not live his life as a
person who never thought about us I know he did I also know that he made many of his
decisions with seemingly no regard for his family he was sick he was quite possibly mentally ill I
think it's safe to say that this decision was not one that was made with a clear hint at his Sina
that's one reason why gop autopsy reports I want to see what his alcohol level was Ms. not to
say that if he had been sober he would remain the same decision because I think he did just
break at this point so I don't know if this is something that he pet Gaudio he did carry a gun in
his hand all the time he kept it under a beanbag that my mom had actually made for him to
have this debate and he liked so much to how she got out there with him I don't know and she
you know she told my sister and me a couple months before this happened that on several
occasions he had begged her to shoot him and put the gun in his hand said it would look like
suicide Let's take a break here and we'll talk some more if you're just joining us my guest
songwriter and singer and musician Allison more she's written a new memoir has a companion
CD and the memoir it is about growing up and family with an abusive father who Who
eventually one else was a teenager he shot and killed her mother and then shot and killed
himself and her new CD is all songs that relate to that in some way they both called blood.
KNDO (NBC)
Nov 4, 2019 • 7:38 AM

B_NOV_WASH_4

we are back with the latest on the kennedy fa on the kennedy family's most recent tragedy. >>
we are learning more about the circumstances surrounding the death of robert f. kennedy's
granddaughter, saoirse kennedy hill >> good morning, the cause of death is now confirmed but
it is still shocking the very drugs saoirse kennedy hill apparently used to help her with
depression and anxiety in part caused her death at age 22. this morning, we now know saoirse
kennedy hill died of an accidental overdose. her death certificate listing a toxic mix of alcohol
and prescription drugs fluoxetine used to treat depression, diazepam, and methadone used to
treat opioid addiction. the 2-year-old student at boston college was found unresponsive at her
females historic cape cod compound on august 1st and declared dead soon afterwards. rfk
junior in his eulogy said she spent the last night of her life having dinner with her grandmother
ethel and celebrating the completion of a 25 page term paper for college with a friend and
swimming at dawn before watching the sunrise. she was the only child of senator robert
kennedy daughter's courtney, and paul hill, an irishman wrongly convicted and imprisoned for
bombing british pubs in the 1970s. saoirse struggling with depression once describing it as a
heavy boulder on her chest, writing in her high school newspaper in 2016 she opened up about
having previously attempted suicide. and the silent suffering of mental illness, writing too often
it feels as if i'm drowning in my own thoughts while everyone else seems to be breathing
comfortably. a episode, she urged her classmates to be more open about mental illness, to take
away its stigma bravery hailed by her mother's cousin patrick kennedy the day after saoirse
died the former congressman is now an advocate for mental health. >> she opened the door for
her peers to also come out and not feel shamed by this illness. and she's a real hero in my
family >> her uncle rfk jr. saying as much at the funeral. if anybody ever wondered whether god
loved the kennedys, the proof is he gave us saoirse, this brilliant beam of light and laughter >>
yeah, it's pretty tough you know, one of the stories they told in the days following her death
7

was that all the family got together down in hyannis port, and spent a saturday night talking
about her and what her life meant to them. and i think that's what's happened in the country is
as we have learned about this tragedy, the country is now starting to talk a little bit more about
mental health, about what it means and the importance about talking about it and not hiding it,
which is something she tried to do. >> she was very courageous about that i know after you
covered the funeral and service, there seemed to be such a section for this young ladies and the
kennedys. >> it was they are uncle rfk jr. who said that because she was an only child, she sort
of belonged to everybody.
KEPR (CBS)
Nov 4, 2019 • 6:42 AM

B_NOV_WASH_5

As the Americans hit the ice over the weekend, they focused on mental health awareness.
fundraiser looking to reduce the number of children who died by suicide. the organization
launched only a few months after a death by suicide last December. the father says the family is
grateful for the community support to prevent tragedies. he says there working with engineers
in la to bring a new therapy to the tri-cities. >> kids can try to create a relation up with a
counselor, but this is different. it is a technology that they are familiar with to change how they
think and you things. >> they donated three dollars from every ticket sold.>>> more notes
adults being diagnosed with adhd. this is according to a new study. the rate of adults facing an
adhd diagnosis has climbed significantly over the past decade. 43% more adults were diagnosed
with the disorder over a ten- year period. they say that it is likely that the clinical community
now realizes that adhd is not just a childhood issue and the rise in cases is because it is being
diagnosed more often, not because cases are increasing.
Fox Sports Radio 620
Nov 4, 2019 • 2:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_4

I'm curious about your journey you alluded to it a moment ago the documentary that's coming
out later this week he said had strung him what what your journey in life from mental health
standpoint gas so really I was I would say I was not I probably average case of the male student
athlete with mental health coming into college never thought about it to be honest I always
thought that I was you know I'm a Republican told a definition I thought was pretty smart kid
but never really had any experience with that gone then obviously lost a teammate during my
freshman year we need them that was really the start of my mental health journey and so
dealing with case so pretty bad depression PTSD that came out of that kept having this same
recurring nightmare of what I've seen that night my we lost teammate and so these
experiences really road me today I was pretty dark point in my life that's right talk about This
idea of the darkest days leading to the most beautiful because really is this idea of talking to the
people that are closest to me my family my friends and one really great therapist to really kind
of put me on the right track of turning this into something that could be positive for and the
result without a documentary working folks see this as it starts to come out Yes that's gonna be
and how indifferent and issue regional stations starting I believe on November 7th I believe it is
going to be airing to the trail Blazers game on Friday at 10 p.m. right here on nbc sports
8

northwest so I am Super excited about its standalone project in the making some really great
stories outside of myself as well are going to be involved in that so saw me ask you this
obviously one point people especially people in camps are in state of the game or the campaign
and if people want to check it out support financial lady you just go down worth that's the
easiest way but let me just ask you is if there's somebody out there watching or listen Let's just
make this practical you know there's somebody out there hurting me have a depression anxiety
suicidal thoughts what advice would you give them what would you tell them to do Yeah and so
part of what we've done to us we're going and talking about is for universities is we always like
we're not therapist we're not professional things go that's always been really it that she a very
innovative way to talk about mental health because people feel more like Yeah I'm not a
professional way I sometimes feel like it's hard to go meditate for 3 hours a day if somebody
telling you to do but for me mental health my mental health journey and I would encourage
people that everybody journey is going to be different and so for me it was channeling my
energy and my emotions and too damn right that they're channeling into sport from me sport
soccer working out it's always been that way for me to express emotion and said vote out
encourage everybody who is out there hurting first of all that that there is hope you know every
single dark moment in my life has also led to some of these really beautiful moments so I wish I
could tell myself that as a freshman to be like Hey had up it's gonna get better it's going to get
easier but then also that it's really strong tas other people for help I think it's hard sometimes
to like be vulnerable with people and I need help right now but that's also one of the strongest
things you can do so those two things coupled with just finding out what works for you for me it
was working out it was running a soccer was talking to friends and family and for other people
it could be music art whatever it is that just makes huge channel that emotion you that and it's
not always going to be sitting down meditating it's not always going to be talking to a therapist
but sometimes it is just finding work for you and days you know what your emotions now no
way is this long journey we've been on the you get if you share that with so many people with
his documentary coming out just a couple days I feel pretty good about that and yet still allow
them hard to believe some time now it's definite hard to believe that some of these were all
things have started from just being willing to share our stories myself my co-founder 10 the rich
we just want to shower stories we just want to build awareness and the fact that it's gone in
this fire from something that started about two years ago and now we have full team oregon
state running this we have all these people across the country that we've touched it is true it is
it's an honor but it's also it's an incredible feeling to know that something so small like just
choosing to share our story has led to such a momentous impact across this country well one
other quick note to before we ran that time here and it's great having studio this is this is such
important work and tailoring your team are doing the O'Neal departed to that I want to
mention that I think is important not only for folks out there who maybe experiencing some
mental health The challenges but for you know those of us if you sense that someone's have
been having a rough time experiencing some things maybe night insurer maybe sometimes are
signs sometimes around I mean you know like with the the whole situation I don't know about
your teammate down there you don't sometimes like it's complete shock but then there's other
times very stop thinking you know there were some signs there were some signs so either way I
think it's important for those of us if you see something if you notice something there if you're

9

concerned about somebody speak up alongside and say can help you Jean Todt can help get in
touch with somebody you can help your profession I would think that's important.

10

News Radio KEX
Nov 6, 2019 • 8:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_5

the last time you're talking on their he got to read these e-mails and memos melancholic she
was soon so you sit around all day you through the Loop French music Benin the
mispronounced French word I don't need that while not this point josh not a birthday we yearold Michael Berry show go ahead Sir I did not do what you got man I want to get your almost
like that ever lived he did not feel you'd asked me for my thoughts on some during a and then
offered an opinion her do I believe he killed himself is that your question Yeah manner no not
at Here's the deal a big for Trump let me ask you your thoughts you don't kill innocent if you do
you want to read I think it's quite scary we have a politician gone absolutely I think they have
some ability it's used I don't if not to the corner think it's not good for him if they cannot cope
with the bank the only people enough it around I wonder about that but again them having
something to do with something Yeah I urge so it carries I answer your question with us for of
the truth I don't know I'm not certain he didn't kill himself and I Harbor doubts and if he didn't
kill himself I'm not certain who did kill him I got it I know many people would I do it like he's
getting hotter % and it listen if that's what we all have to agree I'm the shooter I entertain
doubt she Yes I am I am uncertain as to what happened but Here's the problem you know 10
years ago I was not a fan of conspiracy theories are really not any longer you know what really
chaps my ass not Of the death of jeopardy Jeffrey Epstein because like every other person like
Cam because I believe he was a pedophile because like every person like Cam I'm glad he's
gone I just assumed he killed himself or be killed but I will tell you what bothers me is that we
live in a country where there is a reasonable doubt as to whether it happened and there is a
reasonable doubt the were reasonable was very important I learned that in the law there is a
reasonable doubt asked the circumstances under which she dad as to who else might have
been involved as to how many people could be aware of that it would be willing to speak out as
to how many people if they did speak out would not be taken seriously and and that that makes
me very angry you know I think a lot of people in this country in recent history has failed to
honor their duty their job their responsibilities their commitment she I think some of those
people where bag you think some of those people in Congress I think so moved people are civil
servants bureaucrats I think many of those people in the media I play you a clip coming out
KFXO (FOX)
Nov 6, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_6

harvey: and by the way -- charles: there was an incident where jenelle called 911 allegedly he
had knocked her down and she had injured her shoulder. we get it. harvey: he insinuated he
would kill himself if she wouldn't get back with him. she left him. he threatened to take his life.
this is a temporary restraining order. usually i'm pretty sure david eason was not there to give
his side of the story. it's an emergency restraining order and judges usually issue it, especially if
somebody makes a case on its face that there is a problem and there could be then another
hearing because -- well, because he is not ordered not to just stay away from jenelle but to stay
way from ensley, their kid. charles: it's a custody issue. harvey: that's right.

11

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 6, 2019 • 11:41 AM

B_NOV_WASH_6

tamron: we are back with former florida sergeant mark who almost succumbed to the pressure
facing too many police officers in this country. mark, you have the gun, in your mouth? what
had driven you to that low point in your life? >> it was a totality of my career -- it began shortly
after 9/11, i came up here to new york, we volunteered two weeks in new york. when i was at
the towers, one thing on my mind was the smell of death. and seeing the new york city nypd, all
the officers, first responders, all the same look on their face or being distraught and when i look
back to florida to go back to work, those thoughts became overwhelming to me. i felt like i
could've done more, i should have done more. >> tamron: when you returned from the site
here to florida, were you offered counseling? was there anything offered knowing? >> what we
were told was we have an assistant emac assistance program, if you want to go to it, you can go
to it. >> tamron: did you go? >> no. oh baby died in my arms i was doing cpr, i felt so horrible,
so guilty that i could not save the baby. and it really tore me up to the point where i was having
horrific nightmares, of the baby in my mailbox, the baby in my cruiser, the baby talking to me.
and that started to make me feel like a failure. >> tamron: you have this horrific image of this
baby you tried to say but could not, you have 9/11, this is all in you and you are not expressing
it to anyone. >> you think of everything else we see, the homicides, the domestic violence,
though sexual abuse, we see all this and we are only human. it builds up and builds up. >>
tamron: why was the solution for you to take your own life that day? that was the plan. >> i felt
worthless and i felt that i wasn't doing my job. i gained almost 45 pounds, i didn't like my
appearance, my wife was telling me, you need to get help. i used to tell her, i can't get help. >>
tamron: what kept you from pulling the trigger? >> the night i decided i wanted to end my life, i
was sitting in my cruiser and i wrote a suicide note, taped it to my rearview mirror, but the gun
to my mouth and said a prayer. suicide is about stopping the pain, it isn't about dying. when i
had the gun in my mouth i was very calm, another deputy pulled up next to me who has since
passed away and he talked me down. >> tamron: talk you down? >> heated. >> tamron: in so
many ways you are paying it forward, you have helped ten people, kept them from taking their
own lives. >> i have and i told myself -- [applause] >> tamron: we are boasting what you've
done. >> thank you. it's a great feeling, it really is, to have somebody hug me and say "you
saved my life" and they moved on in their career. >> tamron: what is your message today for
anyone watching that is in the spot you were with that gun? >> it's very simple, it's okay not to
be okay, and that's for everybody. not just first responders, that's for everybody. every buddy
fights their demons and anybody has issues but when you are pushed to your limit, it's okay to
get help and we have to get rid of the stigma. [applause] >> tamron: a powerful conversation
and if you or anyone you know is suffering, there is help. please call the national suicide
prevention lifeline. that number is 1-800-273-8255. you can go to our show's web site, the
information is there as well and we will be right back.

12

KOBI
Nov 6, 2019 • 6:16 PM

B_NOV_OREG_7

new tonight.... the autopsy on a man found dead in his jackson county jail cell... has been
completed. it confirms 28-year-old scott lee ashbaugh died of suicide. ashbaugh was found
unresponsive in his cell during a routine check on monday night. he was arrested by medford
police on october 19th for a probation violation for failing to report as a sex offender and
resisting arrest. He pleaded guilty to resisting arrest monday... and was sentenced to probation.
he was going to be released tomorrow. the sheriff's office says mental health services are
available to inmates at the jail as well as locally for people experiencing a mental health crisis.
there are 24 hour crisis hotlines set-up in jackson and josephine counties as well. you can get
help any time by calling 541-774-8201 in jackson county or 541-474-5360 in josephine.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 6, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_8

now let's go back out to breaking news in eugene.... where three neighbors were shot and
wounded and the gunman killed himself. we still have team coverage on the scene kezi 9 news
reporter michael sevren has neighbor reaction from anthony way. but lets go out to reporter
connor mccarthy with the latest on this shooting investigation. chynna-- we have no new
information to report at this time since the top of the hour but investigators are still actively
looking for evidence behind me. this chaos in a relatively quiet neighborhood begane around
1:15 this afternoon. eugene police chief chris skinner says his department responded to calls of
gunshots here on anthony way. skinner says an elderly man got into a dispute with his
neighbors and shot three of them before killing himself. 4 school is the area were placed on
lockdown because of this shooting there is no ongoing threat to this neighborhood or this
community at all. it static scene right now. this investigation has been turned over to violent
crimes so it just a static scene to reiterate what you just heard from chief skinner is that there is
no threat to the surrounding community. live in eugene connor mccarthy kezi nine news.
AM 860
Nov 7, 2019 • 7:35 AM

B_NOV_OREG_9

his staffer who allegedly leaked the amy robocop video clip this is a big story the real big story if
you followed this Project veritas released a couple of clips from ABC anchor reporter amy
robocop over the Jeffrey Epstein's scandal and incident Lee Epstein didn't commit suicide the
Wow that's andrew at they didn't kill himself the guy there's a guy I the other day on Fox news
with jesse waters he had some was done on the story was a story about military dogs at the
end the guys well I just want to know about the dog by the way if she didn't kill himself it's like
people just like Bob Bob Louis you're just adding this fray is everything didn't kill himself and
does anybody really believe jeffrey epstein killed himself the rich and powerful man who was a
convicted pedophile who hung out with a lot of other rich and powerful man with real
questionable trip Shawn on the leave Express and just real women alleging terrible things about
a lot of rich and powerful and famous people and EPS team whines up dead Oli committed
13

suicide okay okay so amy robot on ABC was sitting around their times square inch the studio
not too long ago she was off the air but the tape was rolling one play this is really really
powerful and profound because she alleges that ABC management Wash her reporting on
jeffrey epstein and she even said on the clip we had and you know we have all the facts.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 7, 2019 • 8:36 AM

B_NOV_OREG_10

… something else you're acting on also involved with another charity that helps veterans as
well. >> yeah, so this is a massive initiative that we'll make veterans day even more impactful. it
has strong meaning to those who kind the men and women who served our country as heroes
and people to look up to and i believe in them and i've openly said for over two decades these
are people that i share my ito those -- ethos with. they have forged the pillars of belief in my life
and i want to see them succeed because i believe they should be honored. 20 vets a day
commit suicide. that's almost one an hour. that's not a good stat. i want to bring it to zero. i
found a charitable organization that re-educates and kind of refamiliarizes veterans with life
after the uniform. and they have a tremendous success rate. i've been to the camps. it's moved
me so much that i was like, man, i want to donate my time, my presence and my resource but i
also ask everybody to do the same because i know there's a lot of people that think like me so
asked the community let's do something special. i'll match every dollar you give up to a million
bucks so if you give a million, i'll give a million. and we'll make the donation on veterans day, a
day we're supposed to remember what all these people have done so not only remember but
feel like we're part of something and juanes again i care about these people and i think we all
want to take that number to zero.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 7, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_11

one person is dead and three others are hurt in a shooting in north eugene. neighbors say the
shooter had been up set over leaves in the yard. it happened yesterday afternoon. police say
the gunman shot and killed himself after shooting three people. one man who has lived on the
street for the past 24 years says everyone on this street knows each other. he never would have
thought a dispute could have led to this violence. "they were good people i thought and i think
they are i think it was just a disturbance that triggered somebody." the three victims were all
taken to the hospital. they're expected to be okay. police say two guns were found at the scene.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Nov 7, 2019 • 7:07 PM

B_NOV_WASH_7

i've got a couple special guests. our podcast, our local podcast that we're featuring is called
coffee break. i'm with jacqueline and lydia. you guys seem relatively young. are you in high
school? >> yeah. >> you're in high school, and you started this podcast when? >> a year ago. >>
almost exactly a year ago. >> we wanted to start with spreading positivity. positive affirmations.
we thought a unique way to do it was spreading a podcast through teenagers opinions. because
14

also adults don't get much of teenage perspectives, and our world issues. >> it's different now.
>> totally. >> i think that's mainly why we wanted to do a podcast through us. >> he we did a
suicide, exploring suicide in america, and actually reached out to a lady here in seattle. she
wanted to come down, so we ended up interviewing here, and doing a podcast on her, herself.
but while we did that, we interviewed her, and put in the why you matter, and so now we have
a whole new segment on why you matter, the suicide, exploring it. but she said she got healing
from having a voice and talking about it. >> what your doing matters. last question i have, since
adults don't get what it's like to be kids, what's your advice for adults with teenagers? i think it's
like, have patience with us. sometimes we're slower, or things don't make sense as what we're
saying. so just have patience with us, and continue trusting us, and just go along with
supporting us. support means everything to us. that's what we need. >> our society is a lot
different than how yours was growing up. i think just being understanding, and caring, and like
she said, supportive, i think that's big. >> love it. thanks you guys so much
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 7, 2019 • 8:17 AM

B_NOV_OREG_12

we've seen the statistics 20 veterans commit suicide each day and 19 have never gotten any
help of Portland area politician public official and a veteran of the vietnam war wants to change
that he's the subject of an interview by Jim Redmond of Portland Tribune jim joins us now good
morning him good morning tell us about Michael Burton why well his name sound familiar to a
lot of mass like Burton who was very active in politics for quite some time he was in the House
of Representatives state House of Representatives from my Canadian pipeline in 95 and he was
the elected head of the Metro Council from 1979 1982 but he maybe Unfortunately best
remembered did when he was important the University in 2011 he was fired after it accused of
falsely billing the school reported 500 dollars in personal expenses for a road trip to Europe and
he was arrested for drunk driving what happened really changed Mark burton slice a big
surprise in 2011 when this happened I knew of a burden because I work with the legislature
were reported that time covered it for a week and also Metro and you seem to be very Ebola
Dr. gaudy boy I didn't know and what he actually didn't know is that he was suffering from
posttraumatic stress from his experiences during the vietnam war he was being covert special
operations missions and louse you saw a lot of damage on the ground and felt that those
missions or accomplishing anything when the war ended had to abandon tribesmen that he was
helping to organize to fly you are not allowed to speak about the missions when he came back
and got out of the service and so even though he was sort of a very productive person he's got
a whole lot of internal problems also he had hurt his back during a mission and became
addicted to pain pills so it was good to get the pain pills I was drinking heavily and his wife just
was really messed up even though those of us who covered the time I didn't realize what was
going through he really didn't realize it well he's dedicating much of his life not helping veterans
today I want so badly to talk about this segment always too short so we will send people to are
can Excel blog but they can read the entire story that you put together and thank you for
bringing that to our attention to we appreciate it you bet it's Jim Redman the Portland Tribune
again you can read more about this on our blog.

15

KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 8, 2019 • 6:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_13

Monday is veterans' day. according to the u.s. department of veteran’s affairs 17 u.s. military
veterans kill themselves every day. the suicide rate among active duty appeared veteran men
and women soldiers continues to rise. for one Portland veteran suicide looked to be a way out
from the suffering during his two tours in vietnam and a two decade transition to civilian life.
then he met his angel. >> it's worked out. we're getting by. >> john enlisted in the u.s. army
with the intent of becoming a millter policeman. test scores showed he would better serve the
country as a combat engineer. he was sent to Vietnam and that's where he came in contact
with agent orange, linked to cancer, while repairing an earth mover turning over parts where
the chemical had pooled. >> i pulled the whole thing over on me. i wore it out there. i got back
to the camp and worry it about two days. >> doctors are keeping an eye on a spot on his lung. it
was his psyches that suffered the most, being unable to get v.a. benefits. suicide was often on
his mind. one day he turned on some music and gathered pills to kill himself. >> they wouldn't
find me until Monday. then the phone rang and it rang again. >> it was a friends asking him to
help assemble a table he had taken apart years before. >> if she hadn't called i wouldn't be
here. >> his struggles and thoughts of suicide continued. claims for his v.a. benefits were lost. in
February 2017 he went to Washington county veterans’ services and met yvette potter. >> john
walked into our office one day which in itself takes a lot of courage for some people to do. >>
just got a call and said, i need help. >> potter, who served as m.p. at the naval air station at
whidbey island, asking for time to get his benefits straightened out. >> he had been homeless,
was rough around the edges. >> i got hassled coming in. >> in three months his claim for 100%
disability related to his agent orange related cancer was granted. a month later he received
$100,000 in retroactive benefits. >> somebody cared. somebody listened. it didn't seem like the
military itself cared. >> the person who cared and listened was yvette potter. >> i call her my
angel. i wouldn't be here. [crying] today without her. >> he also credits the lc store senior
center. a year ago april he married his wife kathy and with his v.a. money and a loan bought a
house in southwest portland which he's remodeling himself. his engineering skills in full display.
>> the center changed me. kathy changed me. yvette changed me. it's like a whole new world
the last five years. >> when she's not works as an advocate she is the mayor of the city of
yamhill. you can find out more about the v.a. and other agencies' response to the rise in suicide
at katu.com. experts say most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. if you need
someone to talk to call the national lifeline at veterans press 2 to reach experts in your field.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 8, 2019 • 10:11 AM

B_NOV_OREG_14

we just mentioned jeffrey epstein I was sure this is funny man I've gotta admit well is because
jeffrey epstein the billionaire pedophile that ABC news loves D our leg past tense I love to write
love baby we don't know he's dead right right thing and he was there is supposedly he hanged
himself right that's the ideas that he killed himself in prison and all this stuff to happen a lineup
where he had the opportunity and the ability to do this and so the joke has then and mean has
been created that jeffrey have steen didn't kill himself right and then there is 80 dozen clovers
16

california brewer eat decided what they were going to do it's tactical option brewing in fresno
sorry on the bottom of the can it says at steam didn't kill himself and you look down look I need
to kn for the expiration date if anybody does that you just the EPS he didn't kill himself great
marketing ploys I was on Yeah that's pretty good they're only releasing one batch.
Portland's CW
Nov 8, 2019 • 9:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_15

funerals for some of the nine family members killed began today. three women and six children
were shot and killed in what mexican authorities believe was a case of drug cartel mistaken
identity. the family was ambushed in the narco ridden area of northwestern mexico but amid
the tragedy a small bit of hope was and a little girl named faith was found. >> a bullet hole
through the canopy. we opened the canopy and the baby was smiling at us. so we found the
baby, and underneath the car was two more bullet holes. >> jesse: caitlyn becker clear from the
newsroom, this is an awful story, how did the baby survive this attack? >> it was the dying act
of her mother that save this 9-month-old girl. christina langford johnson in one of the suvs
when bullet started to rain down on the envoy of cars. the mom's -- the baby's car seat on the
floor before getting out and waving her arms to the gun when she was not a threat. jessica and
her body was found 15 yards away from the vehicle. they beat faith has been reunited with the
father though and other stories of heroic spreading now. donna langford gunned down
alongside two persons but quick thinking 13-year-old boy was able to hide the siblings in a
nearby brush and he walked 13 miles to the compound for help. >> jesse: we hear people think
this is a case of mistaken identity, caitlyn. who does the family hold responsible for these tragic
deaths? the religious community is convinced this is a provocation from one cartel to start a
war with a different drug gang. jesse, they don't expect justice to come any time soon because
cartels run that part of the country. >> jesse: mexican officials are investigating the case. one
man has been arrested in connection with the shooting. we will keep our eye on the
story, caitlyn becker thank you. turning to acid attack arrest. the man who was seen throwing
better -- battery acid in a milwaukee residents face has been arrested, clifton blackwell was
charged with a hate crime after being identified as the man in this video. >> you tell me. >> my
son called me today. daddy, what happened to you? [crying] what do i tell him? some crazy guy
did this to me. >> jesse: he was emotional recounting the moment and he began an argument
over a parking spot telling him he did not belong in this country and dousing his face and
battery acid. now blackwell faces charges of reckless injury, use of a dangerous weapon and a
hate crime. he could face up to 25 years in prison and $100,000 in fines. next, she heard him
die. the family of conrad roy, the teen was egged on to commit suicide by his girlfriend michelle
carter said the jailed team could have prevented it. >> michelle carter, she could have easily
called 911. it was a minute down the road or text me. she had my number. and she text me that
might. >> what did she text you that night? >> that he was missing. >> she knew all along. >>
she heard him die in the truck. >> jesse: conrad's mother and sister exclusively rebuilt to dr. oz
if michelle carter had acted differently, they think his life could have been saved. carter is
serving 50 month prison sentence for manslaughter before a persistent and encouraging text
message to kill himself led conrad to take his own life.

17

the internet is full of conspiracy theories surrounding jeffrey epstein's apparent suicide.. now a
california brewery is feeding into the message. no uh oh for these oreos... the cookie company
is introducing two brand new flavors in the new year. belly flop! an ordinary kayaking trip in
florida ..
KOBI
Nov 8, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_16

quickly turns into monkey madness. a golden commode sparkling with diamonds... is flushing
other fancy toilets down the pipes! what record it now holds. ... from garbage man... to now
good friend. how the campfire brought an elderly woman and her disposal worker together.
your place at 7 starts right now. happy Friday! welcome to your place at seven. I’m Kristina
zagame. if this is your first time watching. this is the show where we talk about all the things...
that are being talked about. this is something that has popped up everywhere lately... questions
surrounding Jeffrey Epstein’s apparent suicide. they have even made their way to a beer can.
California brewery "tactical ops" printed tthe message -- "Epstein didn't kill himself" on the
bottom of one of their stouts. the internet is full of conspiracy theories surrounding the death
of the disgraced financier in jail... the offbeat promotion is the brainchild the brewery's
manager in Fresno. carlos tovar: "i was like, hey, what if we do this? and uh, on our basher can
that we're doing, we put in a 'Epstein didn't kill himself' because you know, it's a big thing right
now." he's hoping the controversy will help sell his suds... although there is a limited supply.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 8, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_17

ken: nike says it is investigating allegations made by former track star mary cain that she was
abused during her time in the oregon project. in a recent op-ed in the new york times, cain says
she joined the program when she was 17, and one of the fastest runners in the country. but she
says an all-male staff shamed her to lose weight. they were led by coach alberto salazar, who
has now been banned for doping. cain says the extreme weight loss led to several problems,
from broken bones to even contemplating suicide. >> i wasn't trying to make the olympics
anymore, i was just trying to survive, so i made the painful choice, and i quit the team. ken: nike
says, " these are deeply troubling allegations which have not been raised by mary or her
parents before. mary was seeking to rejoin the oregon project and alberto's team as recently as
april of this year and had not raised these concerns as part of that process." you can see the
entire op-ed video from the new york times right now on koin.com.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 7, 2019 • 11:03 PM

B_NOV_OREG_18

students behind school students showed consenting signs that were never reported. >> the u.s.
secret service looked at the police report and files in public records for school shootings
working backward from the massacre at a high school in parkland, florida in 2017 were at least
four cases the shooters wanted to copy past incidents at school like columbine or sandy hook
18

and 83% were carried out by male students and seven students died by suicide and two were
killed by police and nine out of 10 showed signs of mental health related industries with 69%
showing psychological symptoms. more than half showing behavioral indicators and one in five
showing signs of neurological or developmental issues.>>> the secret service had no clear
profile of a school attacker but some details stood out like absences because of a suspension
and suicidal seeking the same and a fixation on violence. researchers conclude in students who
carry out shootings are not acting impulsively but are disgruntled and that makes these
incidents preventable. federal officials are now using what they learned to train teachers and
police how to better identify and stop students before the next attack.
KFXO (FOX)
Nov 8, 2019 • 8:51 AM

B_NOV_OREG_19

yesterday marked the one-year anniversary of the mass shooting at a bar in thousand oaks,
California that left 12 people. on the night of November 7th, 20-18, a marine combat veteran of
the war in Afghanistan opened fire in the crowded borderline bar and grill in thousand oaks.
twelve people were killed, then the gunman killed himself. mourners gathered at the bar.
where a shrine to each life lost was adorned with flowers, art, plants and crosses. various
events were held around thousand oaks, including a dedication ceremony for the healing
garden -- a place for the community to reflect, grieve, remember and heal. ### "365 days later,
and a million tears, nothing i can say today will fill the hole in the hearts of all of us, but most
especially the families. yes, hearts were broken, and yet our hearts have reason for gratitude.
while 12 went to heaven, many, many dozens more are still alive today in due in part to their
heroism and sacrifice for those that were lost.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 8, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_20

dan: there was another court appearance for one of the teens accused of killing a 65-year-old
portland man. the 14-year-old who went before a judge today isn't being named because of his
age. police say he shot and killed ricky malone senior after a botched robbery. there are two
other teens charged in the case court documents say the murder happened after the teens
spotted malone along north mohawk street and demanded his car last month. dan: following
up on the deadly argument in a eugene neighborhood this week, it may have involved a dispute
over a lawn. police say one of the victims had a leaf blower when he was shot. jennifer:
investigators may never be able to confirm a motive after a 66-year-old man opened fire on
three of his neighbors. he shot and killed himself before police got to the crime scene. all 3 of
the victims are expected to survive. neighbors on the street say they've seen tension recently.
>> we noticed that in the last couple weeks since the leaves had been falling that the leaves
seem to go from this side of the street back over to this side back and forth. jennifer: police
have now confirmed the victims include a 70-year-old woman and two men, one 44-years-old
and the other 27.

19

KGW-POR (NBC)
Nov 8, 2019 • 4:08 PM

B_NOV_OREG_21

a shooting spree in eugene may have started after an argument between neighbors over
leaves. the shooting happened outside a home in west eugene on wednesday. police said the
gunmen shot a woman and two men, then shot and killed himself. neighbors said the victims
were members of the same family and lived across the street from the gunmen. they claim he
was upset because they blew leaves onto his property. a man who lives in the area describes
what happened. he didn't want his face shown on camera. >> without hesitation he walked
back across the street toward the individuals and point-blank shot both of them in a split
second. they both collapsed, there was three people laying on the ground for all purposes
lifeless when i saw them. >> those three victims were taken to the hospital. we don't know how
they're doing this afternoon.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 8, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_22

Eugene police say a fight over a leaf blower led to the shooting earlier this week. three people
were hurt, and police say, the gunman shot and killed himself. the victims remain in the
hospital, two are in critical condition in a Springfield hospital. the third victim is being treated in
Portland, but his condition has not been released. police say the shooter lived across the street
from the family he shot, neighbors say it is a usually quiet area there but one did notice
something a little off recently. >> we noticed in the last couple of weeks since the leaves have
been falling that the leaves seem to go from this side of the street back to that side, back and
forth. i do not understand it. i do not. Jennifer: neighbors who saw the shooting say that one
victim did have a leaf blower in his hand when he was shot.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 9, 2019 • 2:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_23

the new York times reported this whole thing Detroit February 6 Thomas when Bradford
Committed Suicide last night his body was found in his room at 25 100 Howard Street with the
gas turned the landlord in his building found him the next day a nearby were found several
typewritten pages on and it did communicate with the living somewhere in Detroit is believed
to be a girl who was waiting for him to answer this question the girl of course lewis miranda
psychic and they assured us across town in her own small apartment with the lights off this I am
just waiting listening but she didn't hear anything from Thomas
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 9, 2019 • 12:55 AM

B_NOV_WASH_8

the federal government is working on in March that will address suicides by veterans Affairs
Secretary Robert Wilkie said they're looking at an all government approach since 60% of

20

suicides are committed by vets or not receiving care from the V.A. he said the 20 U.S. veterans
commit suicide every day.
AM 860
Nov 9, 2019 • 5:15 PM

B_NOV_OREG_24

welcome back time though orie good good it's been a while since you've been on I know if
that's a special stuff for us today so go ahead and tell us what to well first I'd like to introduce
fee non-profit that I'm on the board is called veterans like services with Y L Y hav T own we are
non-profit that assists veterans their spouses and children know we have 5 of those service
family wellness education community cannot reach and you know we've been working very
hard there are organizations come a long way more even having our inaugural Paul turned in
December Anderson and it's going to be great hard task master fund-raiser right Yes that is
courage it cool I heard a rumor that you guys one worker program I think wise gone Yes we
have a lot of collaborative partners one being the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and there was a
college kid and heroes frond and the sheer we were the recipient one of the recipients of 12 to
receive a substantial amount to assist our PTSD 12 step program that is absolutely incredible
Let's talk about that a little bit I know you mentioned some of the things that the Foundation
does Let's get over the border how do you benefit veterans and how they get involved in that
type of thing what are some of the services specifically he gave us the list so Let's talk a little bit
more depth on this and then it goes along with the club are partners and I have to mention
known and some of them that work very closely with the to make it happen as you know the
military veterans services around women veterans Nevada team red White and Blue Las Vegas
then of course in June veterans network a group but we provide life management skills battle
born in power circles but image before the PTSD 12 step program it to do life alignment
coaching and things like music and yoga therapy there is so much that we do for veterans and
their families and the list is good just I know is very much needed I've heard some statistics out
there that a veteran suicide is an all-time high and some of those numbers are just scared if you
have some of manu tell us a little bit about what about going with that Yes bill the number that
is that many from are familiar with this number 22 and that averages rising that number
represents the amount of VA veterans a day commit suicide daily Al one is too many and we
strive in every direction to eliminate the possibility of better have stocks at all And you know
many of our wars particularly the 12 study to do it thank you Steve program works toward
countering that good they're worse other programs wheat you offer that I thought those
veterans not eat and a situation where they would have and I said we reassessed with our job
placement we assist with the clothing or lived in arrears we saw this with lies feels so we just
try to counter any time absolutely how somebody find your own Foundation online okay they
were going to veterans life with align him better and just life services got work to and you can
read his head and for ou had a better life services.

21

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 1:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_9

Snohomish County detectives are investigating a dead deputy involved shooting happened in
the 100 block of streets Southeast around 8 o'clock last night Yep he's got a call about a suicidal
man at an apartment complex they were told the man had a knife and already stabbed himself
when deputies got there the man started toward them they tried nonlethal means to stop and
that didn't work as the man kept advancing deputy opened fire he later died at Providence
regional medical Center.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 2:35 PM

B_NOV_WASH_10

deputies responded to a 9.1 call around 8 o'clock Saturday night then involved a suicidal man
with a knife and stabbed himself this was a man in an apartment complex in the 100 block of
100 24th Street northeast first responders say when they arrived the man started toward then
they tried non-lethal methods to stop them from Dan the scene but the man would not stop so
deputies fired on him and was taken to Providence regional where he later died.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_25

Allyson Lara welcome to a fresh here congratulations on your new memoir and on this
wonderful new record you know there's a great tradition of murder ballads and folk music it is
one of the system murder ballad you wrote about her own parents I like it tell the story through
your memoir we next year could of the memoir from the morning of the murder and meet with
you were sleeping in the living room on the floor because your mother had left your father and
moved with you and your sister to a rental apartment she had served him divorce papers he
wanted back and your family and your mother and her best friend Caroline were concerned
that he might do something dangerous she Carolina and the friend was sleeping in her bed
which is why you were sleeping in the living room floor so what if you could read an excerpt
from the beginning of the book in which she described your perception of a murder-suicide I
think it was around 5 a.m. when the gunshots woke me there were two they came very close to
one another imagine the sound of a 36 rifle firing and think at the time it takes to snap your
fingers 4 times to the tempo of 13 by dick's star then imagine firing and yet I lay there for what
feels now like a few minutes terrified to me even a centimeter or even to greet I started around
the barely the living in for a clue about what today and you without question I heard the
unmistakable sound that takes a lie but couldn't quite comprehend then I heard that sound
coming from the front yard that was just on the other side of the living room wall I was only a
few feet away I wonder if it could have been under leftover from the storm came the day
before or maybe another one coming I wonder if it could have been something else in mind and
take the preparations from Canon now I knew it wasn't anything that I knew that plus I've been
close enough to guns to recognize exactly the standings Meek a pop but a little longer than pop
a burst of violence and hard then the reverberation I told myself I know it could be what in your
22

alliance even as simultaneously started rearranging every sale and my body to start accepting
that Yes Yes Yes I use it lasts I got up off the floor I slept shut myself to the kitchen door I was
14 years old I opened the door which opened on a carport and called out into the thick early
morning her mom mind a and didn't turn my head to the left whiny they probably were in the
darkness was a merciful enough to give me no peripheral vision and she stared straight ahead
as I call her one time not again I knew there was no need to repeat myself I wasn't surprised
when there was no response I couldn't step at a time I turned around to go back to the living
room the Mets seemed Carolina headed in that direction Kellen said something about hearing
much she thought might have been a gun and that she looked into mom's bedroom and it was
empty I mean mom wasn't in her bedroom I knew she was outside that I haven't confirmed it
with my ex Sisi did she walk straight out the front door into the approaching morning she then
walked back inside Carillon keep Allison House it momma and Daddy I'm going to go get help
Let's assume are reading from her new memoir which is called blood you don't want to vote but
really just a horrible things in terms of your father did is he he didn't think about you and your
sister and I mean shot your mother and told her Then killed himself that tara Elena he left to
our offense behind any left above was the most traumatic memories and that strikes me as
being so selfish I mean it's obvious to selfishness a very underwhelming or excuse it but it does
it trouble you how little he thought about you when he did this horrific action I'm pretty sure he
did not live his life as a person who never thought about that Yes I know he did I also know that
he made many of his decisions with seemingly no regard tore his family he why is SEC healing is
quite possibly the only meal I think it's safe to say that this decision was not land that was made
with a clear hair at his Sina that's one reason why gop autopsy reports I want to see what his
alcohol level this Ms. not to say it if he had been sober he would've made the same decision
because I think he did just break at this point so I don't know if this is something that he have
thought he did carry a gun in his hand all the time he kept it under a beanbag that my mom had
actually made for him to have this statement he liked so much how she got out there with him I
don't know and she you know she told mess sister and me a couple months before this
happened that on several occasions he had begged her to shoot him and put the gun in his
hand said it would look like suicide.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 10, 2019 • 6:14 PM

B_NOV_WASH_11

quijano: an estimated one in five americans experience mental illness each year. federal law
requires insurers to provide equal coverage for mental health conditions, but as dr. jon lapook
reports, that is not always the case. >> reporter: you can see just looking at how close they are.
>> yeah, they were very, very close. they did everything together. she lost her best friend. >>
reporter: in 2013, brian cada's 15-year-old daughter took her own life. a year and a half later,
his younger daughter attempted suicide. >> the psychiatrist, the therapist and the family
members were unanimous that we needed to get her into a residential care service so that she
could deal with the loss of her sister. >> reporter: his insurer denied residential treatment. a
less-intensive level of care was approved. >> the hospital said what that translates to is your
daughter has not failed often enough to get a longer-term treatment center. >> reporter: so she
has to have attempted suicide several times. >> yes. >> reporter: each time rolling the dice
23

because this might actually succeed. >> that's correct. >> reporter: after a second suicide
attempt, she was approved for residential care. after three weeks there, the clinical staff
described an increase in suicidal ideation, and that she clearly met criteria to continue
treatment there. but just days later, the insurer, united behavioral health, part of united health
group, wrote "the services asked for are not medically needed." >> they were basically
protecting their profitability. >> reporter: cada paid out of pocket for as long as he could-another three weeks. mayoral bendat represents 50,000 members in a class action lawsuit
against united behavioral health. >> when you are the reviewer and i'm the patient or provider,
i could protest all i want and you could hold up your guidelines saying look, you just don't meet
these criteria. but what if the criteria themselves are flagrantly off base? >> reporter: and you
think they are. >> well, i don't think so, the court thought so. >> reporter: early this year the
federal court ruled against u.b.h., and called the guidelines "flawed, unreasonable and more
restrictive than generally accepted standards of care." and that financial incentive infected the
guideline development process. united behavioral health told cbs news, "we want our members
to have the mental health support they need, when they need it." the company said it is
revising guidelines to be more in line with the way practicing clinicians actually determine the
level of care a patient needs. >> it takes time. and because she didn't have that time, she went
back in to a withdrawal situation. >> reporter: cada has had very little contact with his daughter
since she left that residential facility. where does that leave you? >> it leaves me with the
sensation that i have really lost both daughters. >> in the case against united behavioral health,
the court has yet to rule on remedies. dr. jon lapook, cbs news, new york.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_NOV_OREG_26

knew it wasn't anything that I knew that plus I've been close enough to guns to recognize
exactly the standings Meek a pop but a little longer than pop a burst of violence and hard then
the reverberation I told myself I know it could be what in your alliance even as simultaneously
started rearranging every sale and my body to start accepting that Yes Yes Yes I use it lasts I got
up off the floor I slept shut myself to the kitchen door I was 14 years old I opened the door
which opened on a carport and called out into the thick early morning her mom mind a and
didn't turn my head to the left whiny they probably were in the darkness was a merciful enough
to give me no peripheral vision and she stared straight ahead as I call her one time not again I
knew there was no need to repeat myself I wasn't surprised when there was no response I
couldn't step at a time I turned around to go back to the living room the Mets seemed Carolina
headed in that direction Kellen said something about hearing much she thought might have
been a gun and that she looked into mom's bedroom and it was empty I mean mom wasn't in
her bedroom I knew she was outside that I haven't confirmed it with my ex Sisi did she walk
straight out the front door into the approaching morning she then walked back inside Carillon
keep Allison House it momma and Daddy I'm going to go get help Let's assume are reading from
her new memoir which is called blood you don't want to vote but really just a horrible things in
terms of your father did is he he didn't think about you and your sister and I mean shot your
mother and told her Then killed himself that tara Elena he left to our offense behind any left
above was the most traumatic memories and that strikes me as being so selfish I mean it's
24

obvious to selfishness a very underwhelming or excuse it but it does it trouble you how little he
thought about you when he did this horrific action I'm pretty sure he did not live his life as a
person who never thought about that Yes I know he did I also know that he made many of his
decisions with seemingly no regard tore his family he why is SEC healing is quite possibly the
only meal I think it's safe to say that this decision was not land that was made with a clear hair
at his Sina that's one reason why gop autopsy reports I want to see what his alcohol level this
Ms. not to say it if he had been sober he would've made the same decision because I think he
did just break at this point so I don't know if this is something that he have thought he did carry
a gun in his hand all the time he kept it under a beanbag that my mom had actually made for
him to have this statement he liked so much how she got out there with him I don't know and
she you know she told mess sister and me a couple months before this happened that on
several occasions he had begged her to shoot him and put the gun in his hand said it would look
like suicide Let's take a break here and we'll talk some more if you're just joining us making a
songwriter and singer and musician Allison more she's written a new memoir and has a
companion CD and the memoir it is about growing and family with an abusive father who
eventually one else was a teenager he shot and killed her mother and then shot and killed
himself and her new CD is autonomous that relate to that instantly they both called blood we'll
hear more of my interview with Allison more after a short break and Terry gross and this
discretion weekend O the Neubauer family foundation supports WH Y wis freshen their and its
commitment to sharing ideas and encouraging meaningful conversation.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 2:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_12

identities are under investigation for a fatal shooting happened around 8 last night when they
went to the apartment complex South of Everett and 40 4 year-old man who was armed with a
knife possibly suicidal officers say he charged them so they fired rubber bullets he did not stop
advancing at least one officer fired their weapon
AM 860
Nov 10, 2019 • 2:50 PM

B_NOV_OREG_27

and now a story from a listener may Mark leavy who cares show on the great Hey Oh Ina in
Denver today this father pays tribute to his son my serious time hurls his credit he was a
teenager he began to exhibit a variety of strange physical and cats give me your keys and they
fell ill after losing his parents he often felt exhausted and sometimes vomiting this was done for
two or 3 cares about his son a religious and other specialists until a simple overlooked blood
test And revealed Graves' disease which is an autoimmune disease that results in an overactive
thyroid gland after a few years Kershaw least successful attempts to control the disease with
durant he has ever agreement after many years his thyroid hormone levels now mostly
provided by world euros Stabilus one of the symptoms of phrase disease is anxiety and
depression one day 19 years ago who's going to levels were under control I found out he had
written to know I'm explaining his unfathomable sadness and realize to he is on the verge of
suicide I informed him a few weeks earlier that a friend of his high school had killed herself and
25

I knew the idea of suicide and spreads among teenagers like the virus he spent a week in
Pediatrics site were at the hospital and began enrichment and anti-depressants and there be
that helped pull him out of the darkness over a period of a couple of years there was that day I
sat with him in hospital and explain to him how much pain his death would come was too so
many people who loved it's hard to describe what it's like to have your son I want to end his life
I can tell you it's a whole lot better than having your son actually and so much that it takes a toll
on the whole family course I'm so grateful the daytime recovered with Sarah Lawrence college
because they focused on writing as a method of learned he was sort of a normal kid there for
awhile but he was always searching for ways to make his life meaningful after having
considered ending his own life professor suggested he considered his own religious heritage
and a time took a trip to Israel and fell in love with the place they had something he was looking
for Israelis live every day building their ancestral Homeland and in creating unique country with
unique culture her religious Israelis they do this future well leading religious publications in
place in history and theology tells them that should be done they do it under constant threat of
destruction from people who see the entire prize very different all of that created a
tremendous toll on my boy with his renewed love of life and he spent a year at Hebrew
University and then became an Israeli citizen lot of religious American Jewish kids moved to
Israel for a while but not so many still moving to a new country not series the language in the
culture is different and hard to master most of the American Jewish kids to get Israel comes
from Orthodox homes and have a path to raise achievement it fits them or they go to an Israeli
defense force unit for crash worse in Israeli culture and to defend the state 8 time had nighter
clear path to be if she were to be he grew up at home mind that only started observing the laws
of the Jewish Sabbath chibok two years after he left currency he did have some Jewish
education but not a clear path to life and history so he found his path and eventually
attendances I'm out okay booth in Jerusalem where he was Received ordination as an Orthodox
rabbis you might think that said his career path time but there are a lot of roadways and israel
it's not really a job for too many people at the same time he hat is tir guy's license which
requires two years of training in Israel when he first got to Israel he tried to enter the army but
his physical health made that not an option for him he married a wonderful young woman of
any had 3 sons in quick succession team might think this would be the end of a happy story of a
young man's transition to a new life in a new country apparently got decided nothing was to be
easy prey time without dwelling too much on tales of woe time faced an ongoing Senate
difficult challenges over the last 10 years is fluctuating thyroid her among love returned from
the tiny bits of Cairo tissue left behind curtains surgery Cousins some of the old symptoms
return to severe excess thyroid levels from his teenage years could cause damage to the tiny
Muslims in his eyes and the effects of the damage got worse over time resulting in an inability
to read normal sized critter so in a world where work meant I was staring at computer all day
which a time cannot today we're doing significant physical work all day it's his health did not
allow a tunnel found himself effectively an employable except for his ability to work in the
highly competitive tir danc business and with a family of 5 to support gets worse Hey time also
has daily chronic headaches and periodic debilitating migraines the last 4 days to weeks
effective treatment for these problems has been slow to emerge and only partially effective his
oldest son was born with a rare Katter accent but size requiring multiple surgeries and special
schools to manage it's his second time has celiac the stomach problems makes eating Gruden
26

seriously damaging him learning disabilities and his wife has genetic anemia the contributed to
her being overwhelmed with 3 toddlers and requiring more hands-on care duties that would
otherwise be necessary from it time so here you have a young immigrant with multiple illnesses
and needy family need to support them financially and emotionally the only earning capacity is
a tour guide limited by his special need to be close to home and in reach of a struggling family
his response is due to face each day with courage and faith in God faith that these challenges
are meant to test his inner strength 8 tons bennett Tower of strength and stability for his wife
and children and misted zone pain she is slowly improved his health with and organizing trips
through the labyrinth of the Israeli health system that treats standard problems much better in
a serious autoimmune diseases and invisible headaches he slowly built a tour guide in practice
focusing on small groups they allow him to be away from home no more than a few nights at
the time he's created a set of technology tools including two large print computer and phone
screens and text audio apps that allow him to function professed Land this high-tech world
without being able to read normal sized current worry even read large print it without
triggering more severe headaches it's been painful to watch all of this as his father father's
want to be able to solve and fix problems faced by their children and it's painful to be able to do
much in the face of so many challenges universal issue to have to watch children struggle.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 10, 2019 • 6:09 PM

B_NOV_WASH_13

new details in a deadly confrontation between deputies and an armed man in snohomish
county. deputies responded to the stinson apartments in south everett last night. after getting
a call about a suicidal man. investigators in the 44-year- old man was armed with a knife and
had already stamped himself when he started moving toward deputies. when nonlethal rounds
failed to subdue the man, investigators say deputies opened fire. the man was rushed to the
hospital where he later died.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_WASH_14

Snohomish County detectives are investigating a deadly deputy involved shooting happened in
the 200 block of 124 streets Southeast around 8 last night Yep he's got a call about a suicidal
man and an apartment complex they told the man had a knife in an already stabbed himself
when deputies got the man started toward him them they tried nonlethal means to stop and
that didn't work and as the man kept advancing deputy opened fire he later died at the hospital
police was cl have arrested two teens for allegedly carjacking a woman in the High Point
neighborhood yesterday afternoon Mo was driving through the 700 block of 32 second 30
second Avenue Southeast when two teenage boys got into her running vehicle assaulted her
and pushed her out of the car before driving away the ditch the car and Riverview play field the
suspects ran across the field of a youth soccer game officers were able to catch the suspects
with the help of some parents.

27

Fox 12 Plus
Nov 10, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_28

police are trying to find a missing woman who could be in danger. Elizabeth Hallam hasn't been
seen since November first. she was visiting Portland from Arizona -- and was last seen leaving
hawthorn hostel with two white men in dark blue s-u-v. police say the consider her in danger
because she has made some suicidal statements. Hallam is 29-years old -- about five-eight and
120 pounds. she has a lot of tattoos -- and three dots on her forehead. police say she also has
two broken front teeth.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 11, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_15

… conference celebrating our veterans is she says a little thank you means so much two
Massachusetts men want to call attention to the problem of veteran suicide josh religion bryant
T years slander running from Massachusetts National cemetery in born to Arlington National
cemetery in Virginia they left on the 500 mile run earlier today and hope to raise 100000 $
permission 22 a nonprofit that treat vets with PTSD.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:09 PM

B_NOV_OREG_29

suicide among u-s military members and veterans has now >>> and veterans reached its highest
level ever. reached its highest level of veterans groups say the current mentoring rate - 24suicides a day - is rate 24 suicide an epidmeic. and several studies link those epidemic. several
suicides to brain injuries. tonight in spotlign amerererica, duane pohlman examines an
innovative treatment that helps suicides to brain injuries, tonight in spotlight in america heal
injured brains and investigates why the military and treatment that it. injured rains. 4:50 you
went through hell? yes, sir. for retired marine sgt.major simon lemay, hell arrived in 2009 and
2010 in iraq and afghanistan improvised explosive devices - or i-e-ds - claimed one of his marine
brothers... my best friend. and maimed another. 2:30 about 5 feet from me stepped on a
pressure plat the va lost both of his legs. lemay survived... but explosions left him wi >> invisible
wounds of war. 1:32 i ve had multiple ied exposures that have led to traumatic brain injury. he
returned home - disoriented and numb - strugg 5:32 i was lost truthfully, lost. just really didn t
have a desire and will to want to keep going each and every day military doctors treated his
symptoms. lemay descended into deep depression :50 you had that gun at your head, sir? i did.
i did. his aunt and uncle stepped in - convincing him to try an alternative therapy... hyperbaric
oxygen therapy - or hbot... which has helped to heal thousands of combat vets with traumatic
brain injuries - or tbi. hbot involves pressurized chambers pushing 100 percent oxygen into
damaged sections of the brain . mri s reveal brains light up after treatment. for treating 14
injuries and conditions - but not tbi. the department of defense and va are evaluating - but
they, too, have yet to approve hbot for tbi. a va spokesperson writing, "there is insufficient
medical evidence to recommend hbot as a treatment for yet numerous dod studies over the
past 7 years reaveal "significant improvement" for combat vets suffering from tbi. was the
28

medical director of one of those studies - made it clear. 12:35 does hyperbaric work? oh! i
totally believe it does. 13:13 what we re all taught in medical school there is nothing dr. paul
harsch - was among the first to say hbot heals injured brains he says he s been frustrated for
years with the military s refusal to accept hbot as a viable treatment. 13:38 and we can treat
brain injury and here s the evidence. groups, more than 4-thousand combat vets with brain
injuries received hbot and 8 out of 10 them are showing significant for sgt. major lemay,
treatments - which continue - have given him hope. 16:50 i found myself looking to a future.
million veterans with tbi are suffering - while the military whether hbot really works. for
spotlight on america, i m duane pohlman. to simply speak. >> he was lost, truthfully lost. didn't
have a desire to keep going each and every day. or two military doctors treated his symptoms.
descended to the depression. >> you have that gun at your head sir? >> i did. i did. >> reporter:
convincing them to try an alternative therapy. >> hyperbaric or h-bomb which killed thousands
of combat vets with traumatic brain injuries. or tbi. each pressurize chambers wishing 100%
oxygen into damaged sections of the brain. mris revealed brains light up after treatment. the
fda approves each bought for treating 14 injuries and conditions but not tbi. the department of
defense of va are evaluated. but they to has to approve it. a va spokesperson writing there is
insufficient medical and evidence as a treatment for traumatic brain injuries. yet, numerous
studies in the past seven years revealed significant improvement for combat vets suffering from
tbi. doctor george is one of the studies made it clear. >> does hyperbaric work? >> i truly
believe it does. >> reporter: doctor paul heals injured rains. he says he's been frustrated for
years with the military's refusal to accept each bought as a viable treatment. according to
veterans group more than 4000 combat vets with brain injuries received this. eight out of 10 of
them is showing significant improvement.
KEPR (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 5:12 PM

B_NOV_WASH_16

suicide among u.s. military members and veterans has now reached its highest level ever,
veterans groups say the current rate, 24 suicides per day, is an epidemic. >> several studies
linked those suicides to brain injuries. tonight in spotlight on america, duane discovers a
innovative treatment that could help but it has not been approved. >> you went through . >>
yes sir. >> for this retired marine sergeant arrived in iraq and afghanistan, improvised explosive
devices or i.e. deed claimed one of his marine brothers. >> it maimed another. >> about five
feet from me, he stepped on something and lost both of his legs. >> he was left with invisible
wounds of war. >> i have multiple ied exposures that have led to traumatic brain injury, >> he
came home disoriented and numb >> i was lost. i didn't have a desire or the will to keep going
every day. >> military doctors treated his symptoms and he descended into deep depression.
>> did you have that gun in your hand? >> i did. >> his aunt and uncle stepped in and convinced
him to try an alternative therapy. >> hyperbaric oxygen therapy which has healed thousands of
combat veterans with traumatic brain injuries or tbi. it involves pressurized chambers pushing
100% oxygen into damaged sections of the brain. mris reveal brains light up after treatment.
the fda approves it for treating 14 injuries and conditions but not tbi. the department of
defense and va are evaluating it but they too had yet to approve it for tbi. aba spokesperson
writing, there is insufficient medical evidence to recommend it as a treatment for traumatic
29

brain injury. yet numerous studies over the past seven years revealed significant improvement
for combat that's suffering from tbi. this dr. who was the medical director for one of those
studies made it clear. >> does hyperbaric work? >> i totally believe it does. >> there is nothing
you can do for brain injuries is what you learn in medical school. >> the sector was the first to
say this heels injured braves. he has been frustrated for years at the military refusal to accept
this as a treatment. >> this is the evidence. >> according to veterans groups, or than 4000
combat that's with brain injuries received this treatment and eight out of 10 of them are
showing significant improvement. for this sergeant, treatments which may continue without
the hope of that military, has given him hope. yet more than 1 million veterans with tbi are
suffering while the military and the va continue to study whether this…
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 11, 2019 • 10:40 AM

B_NOV_WASH_17

The nation is marking veteran's day today and according to the Department of veterans affairs
as many as 20% of the men and women who served in Iraq and Afghanistan wars suffer from
post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD we spoke with two of those that's about their
experiences with PTSD earlier this year fidel Gomez tourist served in the Navy was deployed
once to Afghanistan army veteran as day James served in Iraq and Afghanistan a total of 3 tours
after he came home I say it was close to suicide because of his PTSD Fidell said he started to
struggle soon after he came under 2011 but was very reluctant to admit it I feel like there were
such a stigma and still is our own having PTSD there is this idea of brokenness that you carry
calm and for me I've always been a high-functioning have always been an over achiever so very
stubborn and was very resistant Nevertheless I still saw the symptoms and deep inside never
allowed us to be honest I would tell myself I keep Saying I'm okay but I don't think that I am
both men made the difficult decision to seek mental health care but that's just the first step
toward getting better past I say if he feels he's got the help he needs from the V.A. 100%
without equivocation Yes fidel a loan I had a couple of hiccups I think that these intentions are
in the right place alone but I also know their home and my V.A. has been limited bomb and
because of that I have to play around with my treatment first which made it difficult you want
to go in there you want you know you want that consistency you want something that feels
good but it's going to be lasting home and that wasn't the case for me you know initially was
recommended acupuncture home just kind of like trying to get my feet wet and supposed to be
every two weeks but you know there weren't enough of special no country is available to senior
every two weeks it wasn't a cadence I could follow so I kept hearing that from the V.A. saying
your point has been canceled we have to reschedule you all own soul it was a little difficult
events leave they got it right alone but I can definitely say that own the resources are not
always do you think that there are people who come back from combat situations in these wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan who don't deal with PTSD or do you think everybody does to some
degree I sales are with you to some degree I would say Yes everybody does days they like fidel's
said they may not know what it is they may not know how to quantify it but there is no role no
person that I know they can go in to war and most people they only see a war hero
extemporaneously from the outside but it's a whole different animal when you're actually there
and it and you cannot see that as a human being you cannot be put in those situations will be
30

around that environment for a year at a time the Army's case and not come back with some
kind of pts state fidel when you live in your civilian life here in the United States do you feel like
americans understand what you have gone through hell no absolutely not I I absolutely nuts B I
own give a talk about it with people not really I think it's it's a difficult conversation to have
with civilians I think that unless you've experienced it you really have no point of reference so
you know I can tell someone you know this is what my experience was in there is a distance and
almost kind of like I don't know I feel like sometimes people romanticize service and war stories
in a way that makes it seem like look at this is great you know it's great will you know you when
you served Yeah Yeah I don't regret going out surfing is my country called but I don't think the
people realize what happens when you go and I don't think people realize what happens when
you come back home and I don't think enough conversations honest.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 4:06 PM

B_NOV_OREG_30

reporter: statistics show 20 veterans die by suicide every day, and military suicides surged this
year. that's why programs like this are so important. >> something as simple as coming out here
is saving lives. like a hundred percent. i've personally taken people that have told me that they
were on the em and going fishing or going hunting completely changed the thoughts that they
had. >> reporter: the combination of nature and camaraderie helping vets form bonds during
the breaks between the birds. >> i can stand here and act as strong as i am, but, i mean, we all
have our times. you know, and this is something that can make a huge difference. and if i can
help somebody from going through something like that, then i'll do it until the day i die. >> i
was out in the blind with these veterans the ar while yesterday. and while justin didn't know
sam or an due beforehand. they left the hunt with a lifelong connection. and that's what the
fallen outdoors is really all about. they have a few upcoming events on black friday and another
in december. learn more about them and this great organization at a link at kgw.com
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:51 PM

B_NOV_OREG_31

deb: now you can drink a beer while supporting local veterans. cascade brewing teamed up
with team aruba confor its continued service ipa. 100% of proceeds will go to team aruba
conwhich is a veteran-he nonprofit organization, it does disaster response, matthew -- michael
mathis, a veteran himself, says he wants to honor our military honors and support our veterans
in need. >> average 20 people, 20 veterans commit suicide a day, it's a huge issue. if we can
help reach out to people that are in need, or shed light on other stuff, like mental health, and
what's going on currently with a lot of vets, it's a big deal.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_32

emma withrow shows us the daily struggles some veterans go through --- and how we can help.
veterans who i spoke with today brought up a variety of challenges that they say vets are facing
31

today. mckenzie johnson, who served in the army until 2016, said that depression is one of the
biggest. "i'd say about 90% of my veteran friends have depression, ptsd, two of them have
taken their lives" camren baker, a navy veteran, agrees. "some of the other veterans that are
my age that just turn to drinking, cause that's all they know, to kill the feeling." aside from the
emotional challenges, johnson says veterans also often struggle with findning a good job. "since
i can't put the knowledge i have to use, i have to find a job regardless, so i went to working a
minimum wage job with a paycheck that was half of what i was making." one of the vets i spoke
with says it's important for those who have served overseas to seek help when transitioning
back into life in the states, but another vet i spoke with says the service centers here in lane
county are over whelmed with the amount of vets needing help. lane county provides disability
services, health care benefits, outreach programs and more. but johnson says its more
complicated than just walking in and seeking help. "when you finally get to them they're great,
worth it, but its hard to get to them cause of how many veterans there are and how little
amount of resources there are." yet despite the struggles that veterans say they face, they say
today is a day that they cherish. "its just nice to know that people do care that they are actually
thankful for what we've done." [501]resources-up on fs there are lots of resources available for
people struggling with mental health issues. the jackson county mental health services runs a
24-hour crisis hotline. you're seeing the number for it on your screen. there's also a number for
the national suicide prevention helpline. walk-in mental health services are also available. the
service is at 140 south holly street in medford. it's open monday through friday from 8 to 5. you
can find all this information on our website, kdrv.com. there is also a veteran's affairs office and
hospital in Medford
KLSR (FOX)
Nov 11, 2019 • 7:02 PM

B_NOV_OREG_33

it is a special day for the estimated 310,000s of veterans throughout oregon. for one veteran
from lebanon it carries extra meaning this year. she is confined to a wheelchair because of a
progressive neurological disease. jeri payne spirit is strong on this veterans day. she is a navy
vet who served from 1979 to 1984. serving behind the scenes as a mess management specialist
and basic office duties. service that she felt was not as important as someone who has been
and conned combat. an unexpected award from last week helped to change her perspective.
>>> she is one of those that has physical capabilities. you would never know that when you talk
to her. life is beautiful for her. her naval services important to her as well.>>> jeri payne was
the recipient of the code were metal in a ceremony last week at the veterans home. her naval
service took her to virginia and the naval air station at bermuda. tonight some personal tributes
from jerry to her fellow vets. >>> several 20/20 presidential hopefuls spent veterans day
unveiling proposals to serve americans 20 million veterans. pete buttigieg tells the associated
press he would like to name the first woman to the department of veterans affairs. other
candidates are calling to step up funding and training for suicide prevention.>>> >> reporter:
democratic residential candidate pete buttigieg campaign in new hampshire laying out his plans
for americans veterans on the day that honors their service. >> every veteran who serves in
whatever capacity and with whatever experience they had should be able to expect a level of
support in exchange for what they offered the country. >> reporter: a veteran himself he noted
32

a lack of women in leadership positions. if elected he could name the country's first female va
secretary. massachusetts senator elizabeth warren who is also in new hampshire said she wants
to cut the suicide rate for veterans and half in four years. and provide annual mental health
checks for service members. >>> it is a reminder how much we owe our veterans. how they are
part of our families friends and communities. >> reporter: and number of candidates are
pushing for more investment and veteran suicide prevention. president trump has also
addressed the veteran suicide epidemic asking a task force to deliver a strategy by next spring.
>>> vermont senator bernie sanders has called for substantially expanding access to va mental
health services. during a town hall in iowa he highlighted plans to feel nearly 50,000 spots for
doctors and other medical professionals at facilities run by veterans affairs.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 10, 2019 • 9:06 PM

B_NOV_WASH_18

I heard many times about murder over the years folk ballads country songs are areas but I think
singer-songwriter Allison Morrow song called cold Earth is the first murder ballad I've heard
where the singer actually witnessed the crime laura was 14 when she heard the gunshots her
father fired killing her mother and himself leaving Allison and her 17 year-old sister or offend
her sister Shelby Lin is also a singer songwriter the murder-suicide as its subject more has tried
to avoid talking about in public and tone now her new memoir blood as about growing up in
Alabama witnessing her parents dysfunctional marriage watching her father's rages in which
she dieded die Alison mother sister the good part of her childhood was the music mother
saying her father played in local bands and wrote some son She later discovered one of which
she performs on her new album more and sister won awards for their duets when they were
children worse new album as a companion to her memoir and is also called blood Allison Mars
music has been nominated for an Oscar a Grammy and Nick enemy of country music award as
you can probably tell this interview have stories related to depression domestic abuse murder
and suicide Allison more Berger retired to the studio just seen some signs wrestle that later but
first I want to play a trap from her new album son about the murder-suicide called Ara we'll
start with the second various
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:14 AM

B_NOV_OREG_34

ken: according to the u.s. department of veterans affairs, nearly 17 former, active-duty
members of the military take their own lives every day. a new program is helping them find
reasons to live. it's called resilience strength training and it's designed for veterans. >> in his
first group he told his own suicide attempt story. he set a making a pledge today not to die by
my own hand and them inviting anybody who wants to join me to raise their hand in all five
raised their hand. ken: so far, 95 veterans have participated, but right now the program is
offered in only a few cities, new york, los angeles, and washington, d.c. coming up this
afternoon, we will dive into how the program works and what the creators say can help more
than just veterans.

33

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 11, 2019 • 11:47 AM

B_NOV_OREG_35

which is what would you say to veterans who may be listening to this we have not taken the
steps to get help that both of you have fidel I would say to be honest with yourself you know
you don't have to be a hero you don't have to projected you are okay if you're not on be honest
with yourself and side being stubborn refusing help a it's okay so you need help it's okay to get
the help mom it's amazing to heal and I think that the moment that you know people are
having on his conversations with what they can and cannot do what they need and you know
and and helped Daisy no one Um there will be one step closer to killing I would say to all my
brothers and sisters who have served you're not in this fight alone I know it may seem like it at
times but they're truly people out there who kid I want to help you there are people out there
who have gone through the same experiences that you have so please we're losing too many of
our brothers and sisters every day to suicide get the help you need resources they have you
might have to go to some bureaucratic red tape but do not she goes a permanent solution to a
temporary prepping that his army veteran I said james and Navy veteran fidel Gomez Torres
speaking with us about their service and also PTSD thanks to both of you and So glad that both
of you are getting the help that you need and that you talked about it with us to you get your
phone conversation and find links resources for veterans that here now dot work much more.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_NOV_OREG_36

We have an update on two of the victims from a shooting in west eugene. a shooting that
neighbors say started as an argument over leaves. rosalina and carlos gonzalez are now listed
under "serious condition" in the riverbend hospital in springfield. this is an improvement from
when they were both in critical conditions. serious condition means their vital signs may be
unstable and not within normal limits. jorge gonzalez, the third victim in that shooting, is still in
a portland area hospital. as we first reported, the shooting happenend last wednesday on
anthony way in eugene. police identified the shooter as 66- year-old carlos alberto angelo.
angelo shot and killed himself after shooting the three victims. we will keep you updated as we
learn more information regarding the victims.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 9:48 AM

B_NOV_OREG_37

according to the u.s. department of veterans affairs, nearly 17 former active-duty members in
the military take their own lives every day. but a new program is helping them find reasons to
live we have a report.>> life is good. >> reporter: this song keeps army veteran, titus battle of
brooklyn, new york a lie. for most of his life he was singing a very different tune rooted in years
of abuse, homelessness, and attempted suicide. >> i simply took the gun, pointed it to my heart
and pull the trigger at point-blank range. it ricocheted all around my body and just destroyed
my internal organs. it took a six hour surgery to save my life. >> reporter: experts say titus was
suffering from something called moral injury. dr. rita brock is one of the leading experts on the
34

subject>> ptsd is usually regarded as something based in fear. and moral injury is your
conscience. you start to doubt yourself, doubt your values, doubt your society.>> reporter: dr.
brock created a program to volunteers of america called, resilient straight training and designed
specifically for veterans. battle was a part of the first group and now he helped lead it. >> in war
there is the main issue of having to take a life. and that is just devastating. >> i lost a lot of
friends. >> reporter: the five day intensive program encourages veterans to share their
dramatic experiences with other veterans through storytelling, writing, and art. >> titus, in his
first group told his own suicide attempt story. he said, i am making a place today not to die by
my own hand, and i invite anybody who wants to join me to raise their hand. all five of them
raised their hand.>> reporter: there are weeks of follow-up. so far 95 veterans have
participated. >> no one has taken their life. no one has returned to drugs or alcoholism, or
anything that is self-destructive. not even i.>> and so, he sings to build resilience and help other
vets build theirs
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 2:53 PM

B_NOV_OREG_38

veteran's day events are underway... let's check in now with kezi nine news anchor matt
templeman. he's in the studio with a preview of stories you'll see tonight at four. matt. jaimie -albany, eugene, roseburg... we have team coverage with all the routes covered for events
happening today. in albany, it's the largest veterans parade west of the mississippi river. in
roseburg, it's the greatest veteran's day parade in oregon. we're at both... honoring our
veterans. more than 2 million troops have been deployed to the wars in iraq and afghanistan...
and, almost a third suffer from some form of a mental condition... including p-t-s-d. it leads to
suicide and other types of violence. we're breaking down what help is made available to them.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:11 PM

B_NOV_OREG_39

suicide among u-s military members and veterans has now >>> in a special report suicide
among u.s. military members and veterans has reached its highest level ever. veteran groups
say the current rate is 24 suicides a day. an epidemic in several studies link will suicides to brain
injuries. >>> tonight and spotlight on america dewayne coleman looks into a treatment that
helps to heal injured blood brains. why the military and the va have yet to approve it.>>
reporter: >> retired marine sergeant major simon arrived in 2009 and 2010. in iraq and
afghanistan. improvised explosive devices or ied's claim to one of his marine brothers.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Nov 11, 2019 • 6:27 PM

B_NOV_WASH_19

suicide among active-duty military and veterans has hit its highest level ever. veterans groups
call the current rate of 24 suicides every day an epidemic. several studies linked suicides to
traumatic brain injuries. in tonight's "spotlight on america" duane pohlman examines a
treatment that helps heal injured brains and investigates why it is still not approved by the
35

military or the va. >> reporter: you went throug . >> yes, sir. >> reporter: for retired sergeant
major simon lamet, it arrived in 2009 and 2010 in iraq and afghanistan. improvised explosive
devices or ieds claimed one of his marine
Portland's CW
Nov 11, 2019 • 9:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_40

they seemed like a happy family, so how did it end so horribly in a grisly double murder suicide?
>> precious, precious people. >> jesse: and joey buttafuoco's daughter on growing up in the
midst of a tabloid scandal. it then, megyn kelly's comeback. why she's using amy roebuck's hot
make moment to step back into the spotlight with a bombshell interview. plus, the most
memorable tv meltdowns ever. welcome to the show, let's get right to our top story, a double
murder suicide shocker. new york authorities believe yonathan is tedla decapitated his wife and
slit his federal daughter's throat before hanging himself. family members of the murdered
woman say she was planning on serving tedla with divorce papers. >> they just seem to all of
each other so much. i don't understand. >> jesse: the whole neighborhood is in shock as one of
their own brutally kills his wife and child before taking his whole life. >> they were just precious,
precious people. >> jesse: it neighbor say 46 road yonathan tedla could often be seen jogging
around his buckler strolling with his 5-year-old daughter. behind closed doors was a family in
turmoil. jennifer schlecht told her family she was in an extremely abusive marriage and even
intended to serve her husband divorce papers and tried to get a protective order against him
hours before the murders. the 42-year-old mom never got the chance. police were called to the
harlem home after jennifer didn't respond to multiple calls. what they found was a grisly scene.
jennifer, decapitated with her head in her lap. abaynesh, her throat slit, laying in her bed.
yonathan tedla was found hanging in another room. and "amazing grace" >> jesse: now a tightknit neighborhood left with questions that can never be answered. the biggest? why. >> the big
question. >> jesse: for more details on this story, make sure you had to dailymail.com
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 4:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_41

jennifer: according to u.s. department of veteran’s affairs, nearly 17 former active-duty
members of the military take their own lives every day. dan: a new program is helping them
find reasons to live. debra alfarone takes a look. reporter:reporter: this song keeps army
veteran titus battle of brooklyn alive for most of his life, he was singing a different tune rooted
in years of abuse, homelessness and an attempted suicide. >> i simply took the gun, pointed it
to my heart and pulled the trigger at point blank range. it ricocheted around my body and
destroyed my internal organs. it took a six-hour surgery to save my life. reporter: experts say
titus was suffering from something called moral injury. dr. rita brock's, one of the leading
experts on the subjects. >> ptsd is usually regarded as something based in fear. moral injury is
your conscience. you start to doubt yourself, doubt your values, doubt your society. reporter:
dr. brock created a program through volunteers of america called resilience strength training
designed for veterans. that was -- he was part of the first group and now he helps lead it. >> in
war, there is the main issue of having to take a life. that is devastating. >> i lost a lot of friends.
36

reporter: the five-day program encourages veterans to share their traumatic experiences with
other veterans through storytelling, writing, and art. >> titus and his first group told his own
suicide attempt sorry -- story. he said i making a pledge today to not die my -- by my own hand.
reporter: there are weeks of follow-up after. so far, 95 veterans have participated. >> no one
has taken their life, no one has returned to drugs or alcoholism or anything as self-destructive
nature. not even i. reporter: and so he sings to build resilience and to help other vets feel
there's.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 11, 2019 • 5:02 PM

B_NOV_OREG_42

several 20/20 presidential hopefuls spent veterans day unveiling proposal to serve the 20
million veterans. >>> pete buttigieg would like to name the first woman to head the
department of veterans affairs. other candidates are calling for more money and training for
suicide prevention. >> reporter: democratic presidential candidate pete buttigieg campaign in
new hampshire laying out his plans for americans veterans on the day that i missed their
service. >>> every veteran who serves in whatever capacity and with whatever experience they
had should be able to expect a level of support in exchange for what they offer the country. >>
reporter: a veteran himself he noted a lack of women in leadership positions. if elected he
could name the country's first female va secretary. >>> massachusetts senator elizabeth warren
who is also a in new hampshire that she wants to cut the suicide rate for veterans in half in four
years. and provide annual mental health checks for service members. >>> it is a reminder how
much we owe. our veterans. they are part of our families. our friends our communities. >>
reporter: a number of candidates is pushing for more investment in veteran suicide prevention.
president trump has addressed the epidemic asking a task force to deliver a strategy by next
spring.>>> vermont senator bernie sanders has called for substantially expanding access to va
mental health services. during a town hall in iowa he highlighted plans to fill nearly 50,000 slots
for doctors and other medical professionals at facilities run by veterans affairs. recent polls
show a tight four- way race in iowa between sanders warren to judge and joe biden. the state's
caucuses are less than three months away.
Portland's CW
Nov 11, 2019 • 10:20 pM

B_NOV_OREG_43

jeff: the transition from military to civilian life is challenging for many veterans, but a bakery in
washington, d.c. is working to ease that transition, one scone at a time. anna wiernicki is in
washington with more. >> it was a lot and it shook my system. anna: kim defiori says when she
returned home from afghanistan, she was facing a more personal battle. >> i had a couple
suicide attempts when i was at the pentagon. anna: after nine years in the military, she knew it
was time to leave. >> and so i was like, i don't know if i can go to the conventional workforce.
anna: that's when kim and her service dog thor enrolled in dog tag. dog tag is a nonprofit
bakery in the heart of washington, d.c.'s georgetown neighborhood, serving more than just
scones. >> what we've created here is really a living business school. anna: meghan ogilvie, dog
tag's ceo, says their mission is to provide a recipe for success for veterans transitioning into the
37

civilian workforce. >> we recruit veterans with service connected disabilities, military spouses,
and military caregivers. anna: every week, the veterans spend six hours in the bakery and six
hours in the classroom. >> they go through tests, papers, and presentations to earn and
graduate with a certificate in business administration from georgetown. anna: according to the
defense department, more than 250,000 service members leave the military each year.
christopher plamp with hire heroes says many of them need employment assistance. >> they
have never made a resume, they've never interviewed for a job, they don't even understand
the skills that they gained while they were in the military. >> starting a business when you have
no expertise in business, it's hard. anna: defoiri graduated from dog tag in 2018 and launched
her own nonprofit. >> we started badges united foundation. anna: dedicated to boosting
overall wellness of first responders and their significant others. in washington, i'm anna
wiernicki.
KFXO (FOX)
Nov 11, 2019 • 8:51 AM

B_NOV_OREG_44

i'm heading to a gathering for one of the students who passed away." an all too familiar
occurrence this semester for usc senior nicole ricken. in fact that's how she met usc's new
president carol folt. "she attended one of the services for a boy who passed away earlier this
semester." one of the student deaths was matt olson, a freshman, killed the weekend he
moved on-campus, killed walking on the 110 freeway in the early morning hours on august
26th. "i've been aware of all the suicides and deaths that have been happening and i was
wondering why the administration wasn't really addressing it suet so when i saw the letter i
was really glad." this letter sent to students. parents. faculty. trying to calm fears. "corrects
some misinformation that we were hearing. that we had a larger number of students die by
suicide. she said 8 students have died this semester. the headline on the daily trojan sums up
campus concern. 8 students dead, 3 by suicide. the other 5 -- in some cases facts are not widely
known. "in many cases when a student passes away we don't know the cause of death." dr. van
orman says anywhere from 4 to 15 usc students have died in a given year over the last decade.
8 in this fall semester alone is alarming to many on campus "i've been at least acquaintances
with 4 of the students who passed away. one of them was one of my closest friends." another
letter went out. this time to faculty, asking them to be understanding of what students are
dealing with now. and to reach out to them. offer support. and direct them to counseling if
needed. "it's a really tough time."
KXLY (ABC)
Nov 12, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_20

take a look at take a look at this video that you'll only see on 4 new now.... spokane police tased
a knife weilding man this afternoon in northwest spokane. this is near driscoll and winston..
officers say they were responding to a domestic violence call - but the man ran off before they
arrived... he was later found jumping on the hood of a truck... and scraching it with the knives.
officers say he was making suicidal statements before they tased him.

38

KEPR (CBS)
Nov 12, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_21

the pasco education foundation is offering a grant in memory of the pasco teacher killed by her
boyfriend last year. laura cole was a special education teacher at whittier elementary. she was
killed by her boyfriend in a murder suicide last year. in her memory, the pasco education
foundation has teamed up with laura's family to support other teachers with the same mission.
>> not too long after her funeral, her family actually reached out, really wanting to establish a
grant or some sort of help to other teachers that are doing similar work in the district but with
laura's passion working with students with disabilities. >> if you work for the pasco school
district and are interested in applying, we will have the application on keprtv.com . the
foundation will award to $500 grants.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 12, 2019 • 6:11 PM

B_NOV_OREG_45

following up on a violent shooting we first told you about last week on newswatch 12 at 6. as
you may remember a eugene man is suspected of shooting three of his neighbors over leaves in
his yard. that shooter, carlos angelo, then killed himself. now his ex-wife is speaking out. jessica
babb spoke with her today -- she says angelo was "very disturbed". sot: i'm stunned, i'm
shocked. that's how van-ya wheeler feels after finding out her ex-husband shot three people -before killing himself. sot: "he was very disturbed." neighbors tell us angelo was mad someone
blew leaves onto his property. sot: "he could get very mean, very fast. stubborn, very hardheaded in their marriage -- she says it was the simple things that left her feeling freightened.
sot: "he would get mean over moving something around that wasn't in the right place. how
particular he was to the point of ocd.. maybe he had mental illness." others who knew him echo
the same thing. sot: it doesnt surprise me what happened. very paranoid person. that man -who didn't want to be identified says he sold him his groccery store years ago. he says he was
so paranoid - he boarded up the drive through and put bars on the windows. he wasn't a
people person; we'll just say that." in fact -- van-ya says he didn't have any friends at all. but
neighbors who live religion. i worry about her and i hope she's okay.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 12, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_46

Oregon’s suicide rate is 35 percent higher than the national average. >>> are gone suicide rate
is a 35% higher this trend continues throughout the rocky mountain region to alaska... earning
the label of this trend continues throughout the rocky mountain region suicide belt. alaska,
earning the study, compiled by the centers for disease control and suicide belt. study compiled
by the prevention... wanted to for understand why life expectancy prevention wanted to
understand why life expectancy has declined over the last three years. with advances in
medicine and declined over the last three years. technology... scientists with advances in
medicine, the technology scientist expect an expectancy. incre however, they discovered that
unintentional injuries, however, they accidental deaths from overdoses, and suicides... are
39

largely responsible for rising u mortality rates nationwide. accidental that from overdoses and
suicides are largely responsible for rising mortality rates nationwid medford will be getting
more than 15 million dollars in the form investment
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 12, 2019 • 2:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_47

We are starting this midday with an update on two of the victims from a shooting in west
eugene. a shooting that neighbors say started as an argument over leaves. rosalina and carlos
gonzalez are now listed under "fair condition" in the riverbend hospital in springfield. this is an
improvement from when they were both in serious condition fair condition means their vital
signs are stable and within normal limits. jorge gonzalez, the third victim in that shooting, is still
in a portland area hospital. as we first reported, the shooting happenend last wednesday on
anthony way in eugene. police identified the shooter as 66- year-old carlos alberto angelo.
angelo shot and killed himself after shooting the three victims. we will keep you updated as we
learn more information regarding the victims.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_48

a developing story out of klamath falls- police say a man is recovering tonight. he was shot by
police. klamath falls police officers responded a domestic disturbance call yesterday afternoon
around 4:30. they were called to a house on laguna street on the northeast side of town. when
they got there-- someone told police robert faulkner had walked off. the person told police he
was angry and had made comment about being armed and seeking suicide by cop. police
started looking for faulkner. the officer that found him said he saw faulkner as a threat. The
officer shot faulkner. he was taken to sky lakes medical center. faulkner had surgery. he's
expected to recover. no police officers were hurt. this case is under investigation. the district
attorney doesn't yet know if any charges will be filed in this case.
KOBI
Nov 13, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_49

now to a story we broke last night at 6... the klamath county major crime team has been
activated, following an officer-involved shooting that left a suspect in 'critical' condition. n-b-c2's lyle ahrens was the first reporter on scene. the shooting happened at about 4-30 following a
report of a domestic disturbance at a home on laguna street. police identified a 34 year old
man as a suspect. "robert lee faulkner had left the house very angry, armed with a gun, and
indicating that he wanted to commit suicide by cop." the d-a says police found faulkner hiding
with a gun in a field next to the home. "upon making contact with him, there was an
altercation, shots were fired, and mister faulkner was taken to the sky lakes hospital." a
neighbor who declined to go on camera says he heard 5 shots. "have we identified that officer,
or that agency?' 'we are not going to release the involved officers names at this standpoint, but
it is with the klamath falls police department." oregon state police were processing the scene
40

for clues wednesday morning. the officer has been placed on paid administrative leave pending
completion of the investigation. "we anticipate there will be a grand jury review in a short
period of time." the officer involved was not injured in the incident. in klamath falls, lyle ahrens,
nbc2 news. faulkner underwent surgery at sky lakes medical center. as of early this afternoon,
he was listed in 'critical' condition. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis
counselor. around the region.
KOHD (ABC)
Nov 12, 2019 • 11:25 PM

B_NOV_OREG_50

first responders never know who or what they are going to encounter when a call comes in.
sometimes, they have to deal with people in the midst of a mental health crisis. that can be
dangerous for everybody in involved. this year deschutes crisis team fielded 155 calls in the
month from law enforcement needing help. >> a collaborative effort between mental health
professionals and law enforcement are trying to make sure people get treatment instead of
getting shot. >> steve kaufman takes us to a training center. a warning tonight, some of the
subject matter might not be appropriate for all viewers. >> i don't want to hurt myself. i have
kids. >> i don't know why she decided to call the police. what is the big deal, mom. >> they
didn't sign up to be a mental health professional, they signed up to be a police officer. >> i'm
not taking that anymore. >> when they encounter somebody like this, they are always
somebody's loved one. >> i don't have an answer to why we are seeing an increase in mental
health calls. >> there's lots of theory, but we know consistently they are going up. >> when i
first started as a deputy sheriff we would get a mental health call once a month, if that. we see
those calls every day. >> january 1 to september 30, the mobile crisis team was contacted 4,065
times. of those we were called by law enforcement 1,389 times. >> there was a particular day a
few months ago we had three simultaneous mental health calls we were dealing with. >> c.i.t.
stands for crisis intervention training, a way to bridge the gap between law enforcement and
mental health. >> a bridge to at least get services done. without shooting people. that's really
the bottom line. >> section 42. >> and idea developed in 1988 in memphis, tennessee.
deschutes county embraced the model in 2010. >> i apologize for the system, we, the people,
have not done a good job of taking care or our mentally ill individuals in this society. >> that
message on day one of a week long training from roger olson to a group of officers because ->> we make law enforcement and corrections people try to be nurses and mental health
professionals and they are really not trained to do that. >> empathy from a parent. >> my son
was 18 and started acting bizarrely. >> his child faced run ins with the law. >> he was diagnosed
with paranoid schizophrenia. >> he was thrust into a role with c.i.t. >> i let them know that
families are important. not to fear things that really aren't a violent act. they are a behavioral
quirk. >> certainly not a choice. it is not somebody chooses to have a mental illness. recognize
the signs and symptoms and not necessarily interpret the symptoms as the individual being
uncooperative or defiant. >> out on patrol things are more complex. >> they take a lot of time.
they take a lot of patience. >> usually in law enforcement you wanted to go in and save the day.
in some situations with someone suffering from mental illness you can make the situation
41

worse. >> the reality is these calls are hard. >> who else can i talk to besides the va? >> a week
of training leads to this. >> mother states there are no weapons in the room. >> six scenarios
with role players. sound real? feels real. and look real. >> we take real life calls that have
happened. >> except the location, in a group of children's classrooms at a local church. >> we
are trying to touch on all the things they learned all week. >> the first thing was getting the
situation down to normal voices and you guys did a good job of that. >> had you done that way
sooner you would have gotten farther. >> we do a debriefing for each one. >> a critique for
mental health professionals and experience in c.i.t. trained officers with the goal to handle crisis
calls with empathy and without force. the first step in the big picture of c.i.t. >> c.i.t. is more
than training. it is more about what can you do as a community to help the folks in this
community that have mental health issues. >> that was really good. >> if he started this week
with you were told to be here and cynical about it, that you at least learned something and feel
something. >> we've made a big difference. people have a little more step back to see what
happens and more compassionate attitude. >> there is a commitment to have every officer?
central oregon c.i.t. trained. after this week, that goal is closer. in bend, steve kaufman, "central
oregon daily." >> along with that kind of training there is is a c.i.t. board. made up of law
enforcement and mental health proechls. it meets monthly and try to staff mental health
related cases. >> if you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide, there is help
available
KEPR (CBS)
Nov 13, 2019 • 6:12 AM

B_NOV_WASH_22

the pasco education foundation is offering a grant in memory of a teacher who was murdered
by her boyfriend laster. she was a special education teacher at whittier elementary. she was
killed by her boyfriend in a murder suicide last year. in her memory, the education foundation
has teamed up with her family to support other teachers in the same mission. >> not too long
after her funeral, her family reached out and really wanted to establish a grant or some sort of
help to other teachers that are doing similar work in the district that was her passion. working
with students with disabilities. >>> if you work in the pasco school district and are interested in
applying, we have application online at keprtv.com. they will award two $500 grants.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Nov 13, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_23

the state of Washington will pay half a million dollars to the family of a man who died by suicide
in an isolation cell in Washington prison the settlement announced today stems from the 2014
death of Morgan Blue course the airway heights prison near Spokane attorney Ryan driver
grabbed represent Blue horses family he said Blue Porsche faced heightened risk of suicide
because he suffered from mental illness and because he was often in solitary confinement due
to threats from other inmates she does 0 pounds your individual who used to be in protective
custody because he's not restarted also is that risk because he's mentally ill any's own isolation
there's not trevor crab says the Department of Corrections failed to take adequate steps to

42

treat Blue worsen mental illness and prevent him from taking his life and settling the case the
agency did not admit wrongdoing and said bluish repeatedly denied having suicidal thoughts.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_51

in a special report on kezi nine news at 6... you're going to learn about a suicide-prevention
organization...savin g lives...online. the eugene-based group is called "youth era." they're about
to celebrate their 10- year anniversary. what makes "youth era" different, is where they place
their suicide-prevention focus. they're constantly researching the latest, most used, social
media platforms....some you may not have even heard of. in today's world, young people aren't
walking into doctors' offices when they need help. they're not going in and talking to therapists
about depression. they're doing that online. they're doing it on these social media platforms.
don't miss our special report, "social guardians."
AM 860
Nov 13, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_52

Reporting a happy ending to a mental health crisis the person who was suicidal prompted the
shutdown of I 84 during rush hour yesterday that person is now in the hands of medical
professionals the highway was closed at northeast 68 Avenue while negotiators dealt with the
person.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Nov 13, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_24

the state of Washington will pay half a million dollars to the family of a man who died by suicide
in an isolation cell in Washington prison the settlement announced today stems from the 2014
death of Morgan Blue course the airway heights prison near Spokane attorney Ryan driver
grabbed represent Blue horses family he said Blue Porsche faced heightened risk of suicide
because he suffered from mental illness and because he was often in solitary confinement due
to threats from other inmates she does 0 pounds your individual who used to be in protective
custody because he's not restarted also is that risk because he's mentally ill any's own isolation
there's not trevor crab says the Department of Corrections failed to take adequate steps to
treat Blue worsen mental illness and prevent him from taking his life and settling the case the
agency did not admit wrongdoing and said bluish repeatedly denied having suicidal thoughts
the Tacoma city Council has voted in favor of attacks on fire arms and ammunition came cases
will Stone report the Council passed the measure unanimously last night emotional testimony
stretched for hours some more to put the comas gun stores out of business others said it
doesn't go far enough many who spoke saw it as a misplaced effort to stop crime and her
Foreman was one of them he survived a mass shooting in the Tacoma Mall in 2005

43

KGW-POR (NBC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 4:22 PM

B_NOV_OREG_53

we are taking up now the serious topic of suicide with a local author who decided to make
prevention a priority when her dad took his life. >> yeah, the latest numbers are concerning
and here's just some involving kids. suicide the second leading cause of death in teens. the rate
among 10 to 14-year- olds has nearly tripled in ten years. that's close to 89,000 deaths in that
age group. >> paula joining us. she releases her book called understanding suicide clsh living
with loss, paths to prevention. thanks for being here. from your research why is it so many
young people struggle with suicide? >> yes, first of all, it's been rising all over the world. this is
not specifically here in the u.s. there are many factors associated with this rise. one of them,
and i think the main one, is related to family dynamics. so lack of communication. it can be
some kind of abuse happening, substance use, mental illnesses, history of suicide in the family.
so all of this is connected to the rise. but also the changes that we go through in our bodies. the
fact that the brain is not fully developed in the area of the brain that's not fully developed is
exactly the one that's responsible for reasoning. so all of that together, they make it really -- it's
a very complicated scenario. and it's happening everywhere, unfortunately. >> a big reason to
be familiar with the warning signs as you watch the young people around you and other people.
take us through some of those signs, like isolation. >> yes. many of these warning signs, they're
very similar to symptoms of depression. so isolation is one of them. staying in their rooms for
longer than usual. they start not taking care of their hygiene anymore, the appearances. they
stop sleeping or they sleep too much. they gain weight or they lose weight. some of the
warning signs that are very closely associated with depression. but there are some other ones
that raise a red flag. and the reason why they do that is because they have these warning signs,
it means they have advanced planning. they may have -- maybe they have plans to do it very
closely to the day that you observe these signs. and one of them, for example, is when they
start to give out megss. they start giving everything they have. even if it has a sentimental
value. or they start talking about the past a lot, reminisce about the past. they stop talking
about the future. and the reason why they do that is because they don't think they have a
future anymore. so these are some of the red flags that we really have to watch out. >> what
do you hope to bring to people? what advice do you have as someone who went through this
closely, you have a close personal connection. >> the first one is listen. if you do observe heez
warning signs, listen. sit down, ask specifically about suicide. don't be afraid to use the word
suicide. with have this myth that if we say the word, we're going to put the idea maybe in
somebody else's head. and what research shows is exactly the opposite. so be open to listen.
don't be judgemental. this right or wrong, or don't do this. this is not helpful. >> as you look
back at your father's situation, did he exhibit these warning signs you write about. >> yes, in
retrospect, yes. but back then we didn't really spot any of them. so he did organize his finances
and actually the day before he took his life he went to see my sister. and i was coming because i
was on vacation, and i was coming back during that week. and he usually picked me up at the
airport. and i remember at the time my sister asked my dad are you going to go to the airport
and pick her up. and he went back to the past immediately. he started talking about a trip we
had in the past. so this was very clearly a sign. >> yeah, which you might consider normal in that
moment. but if you combine with other stuff. >> well, of course, who would ever think that,
44

maybe. she kept asking are you picking her up because she wanted to know. no, no. i
remember this trip that we had and he would always go back to the past. >> well, this book
you've spent five years interviewing people sharing their stories. congratulations on its
publication. >> yes. >> and you have a signing tomorrow night at george fox university in new
sglnburg. >> not in newburg, tie guard actually. they have a campus there. >> glad you clarified
that. from 7:00 to 9:00 and the website on the screen understandsuicide.com. and as we go to
break, we share the number for the national suicide hotline for anyone who might be
struggling.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 5:57 PM

B_NOV_OREG_54

new data shows suicide rates skyrocketed across the u-s from 2007 to 2017. the c-d-c found a
56-percent jump in 10 to 24 year olds. thanks for joining us tonight. i'm matt templeman. i'm
renee mccullough. it's a statistic that one local organization is working to reduce... and they're
using social media to do it. kezi nine news anchor bryan anderson investigates in our special
report, "social guardians." "youth era" is not your typical brick and morter organization. their
main presence is online. they are saving lives, on social media, by being the gobetween...between those at-risk...and the medical professionals. from facebook to playing
video games...all in an effort to combat youth suicide. behind her smile& 22:05:50 (laughs) is
sheer survival... alice 21:54:19 sadness. yeah. ...for north bend 18- year-old alice strong. alice
strong, suicide survivor 21:47:58 i was 7 when i first attempted suicide. i was 9 the second time.
i was 13 the 3rd time. i was 16 the 4th time. and the 5th time was just 2 months ago. a lifetime
of isolation... alice when will i have friends? when is everything going to be ok? ...that 20 year
old trevor paxton can relate to. trevor paxton guess i never really felt like my life meant much.
at this moment, i don't really think it means that much. self-doubt and more for matthew lewis.
matthew lewis depression, anxiety, social anxiety. and i actually attempted suicide. bryan if
youth era wasn't around, where would you be?... the suicide- prevention group...that connects
these young oregonians.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_55

a man is in custody after a shooting in klamath falls. police say this happened on laguna street
yesterday afternoon. klamath falls police department arrested robert faulkner during a
domestic disturbance call... and officers say he left the home angry. police say witnesses told
them the suspect made a reference to being armed with a handgun and seeking suicide by cop.
police say an officer located the suspect in brush with a gun and shot the suspect. the suspect
was taken to the hospital for his injuries. no officers were injured... and the officers involved
have been placed on paid administrative leave oregon state police is investigating the incident.

45

KTVZ (NBC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 7:06 PM

B_NOV_OREG_56

the city of madras held its veterans healing memorial ceremony today. it was a time to
recognize the mental health struggles many veterans face every day. newschannel 21 spoke
with shawn stan-fill and johnathan courtney, bo jefferson county veterans. they say this is the
first memorial of its kind in central oregon. ### m "theission that its primarily responsible for is
to leave no man behind and we have a suicide rate of one every 65 minutes that's 22 a day and
so its goal is to recover these people." "when soldiers come back from ir aq, we hr ave
oumental health issues things we will never, ever unsee and so this is a safe place where
veterans can come and seekhe out lp so that way they are not alone in this p. rocesswhen we
left, we came home different." ecthe spial tribclute in uded'l the g ightinof the first fire.'th e fire
was lit at two-twenty-two p-m. this symbolized the estimated twenty- two veterans who take
their own lives each day. me the gmorialeoives pple an opportunity to r ueflectpon the
sacrifices of local veterans.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_57

New data shows suicide rates skyrocketed across the u-s from 2007 to 2017. the c-d-c found a
56-percent jump in 10 to 24 year olds. thanks for joining us tonight. i'm matt templeman. i'm
renee mccullough. it's a statistic that one local organization is working to reduce... and they're
using social media to do it. kezi nine news anchor bryan anderson investigates in our special
report, "social guardians." "youth era" is not your typical brick and morter organization. their
main presence is online. they are saving lives, on social media, by being the gobetween...between those at-risk...and the medical professionals. from facebook to playing
video games...all in an effort to combat youth suicide. behind her smile& 22:05:50 (laughs) is
sheer survival... alice 21:54:19 sadness. yeah. ...for north bend 18- year-old alice strong. alice
strong, suicide survivor 21:47:58 i was 7 when i first attempted suicide. i was 9 the second time.
i was 13 the 3rd time. i was 16 the 4th time. and the 5th time was just 2 months ago. a lifetime
of isolation... alice when will i have friends? when is everything going to be ok? ...that 20 year
old trevor paxton can relate to. trevor paxton guess i never really felt like my life meant much.
at this moment, i don't really think it means that much. self-doubt and more for matthew lewis.
matthew lewis depression, anxiety, social anxiety. and i actually attempted suicide. bryan if
youth era wasn't around, where would you be?... the suicide- prevention group...that connects
these young oregonians.
KXLY (ABC)
Nov 12, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_25

a busy night in the nightside the spokane county sheriff's office is investigating a death that
happened at the rodeway inn in spokane valley. hotel staff found a man insdide a room last
thursday, the night before, he walked into the lobby covered in blood. employees told deputies
46

he appeared suicidal, the man claimed he had been attacked. a woman told police the man was
using heroin. he was trespassed from the hotel and taken to the hospital. he somehow made it
back into his hotel room where he was found dead on the floor the next morning. detectives
say there are signs of a possible struggle. the investigation is ongoing. spokane police tased this
man -- reishawn baker in northwest spokane near driscoll and winston... they found him armed
with two large knives threatening drivers. officers say they were originally responding to a
domestic violence call. police say baker was making suicidal statements...he was booked into
spokane county jail on several charges... including disorderly conduct and displaying a
dangerous weapon. anyone who witnessed the events are asked to call crime check at 4562233.
KOBI
Nov 14, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_58

new tonight... 3 of the 4 explosive devices found in grants pass tuesday... were live. that's
according to investigators. landscapers found what appeared to be a grenade tuesday near the
mcdonalds on the north side of town... just off i-5. after sweeping the area... police found 3
more. they didn't evacuate... but part of 7th street was shut down. tonight... police say another
sweep of the area... found no more explosive devices. a man who was shot by klamath falls
police late tuesday afternoon has been upgraded from 'critical' to 'serious' condition. 34 year
old robert lee faulkner was wounded by police following a domestic disturbance call. officers
say faulkner was armed with a handgun, and seeking 'suicide by cop'. the officers involved have
not been identified. they've been placed on paid administrative leave pending completion of a
full investigation... as is standard procedure. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected
to a crisis counselor.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 14, 2019 • 6:50 AM

B_NOV_WASH_26

Washington state will pay a half million dollars to settle a lawsuit involving an inmate who
committed suicide while in solitary confinement Olivia correspondent austin jenkins has the
details in may of 2014 29 year-old Morgan Blue course hanged himself in his isolation Sell the
airway heights Corrections Center near Spokane he left a note saying the Department of
Corrections didn't seem to care about his safety Ryan trevor scrap represents Blue versus family
I think the story reporter louisa is sort of an individual was failed by the state it everybody go
trevor scratch says blue hearse was placed in foster care as a young child where he faced abuse
he went to prison for burglary at age 18 and spent most of the rest of his life there are often in
isolation because other inmates threatened him trevor scratch says the prison system failed to
properly identify and treat Blue versus mental health needs and his time spent in solitary cells
but at higher risk for suicide if you need to put an end to solitary confinement you make sure to
check up on more frequently election would you use to health care I do me because I know he's
much more rare S sauntered in settling the case the state admits no fault or liability and his
47

blue hearse never indicated he was suicidal during the decade he was in prison Blue course was
one of 11 Washington inmates to die by suicide 2014 2015 a spike that prompted a 2017
investigation by public radio's Northwest News network titled how 11 suicides force change
inside Washington prisons.
KTVZ (NBC)
Nov 13, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_59

the city of madras held its veterans healing memorial ceremony today. it was also a time to
recognize the mental health struggles many veterans face every day. newschannel 21 spoke
with project coordinator 'shawn stanfill', to hear more about what he says is the first veteran
memorial of its kind in central oregon. ### "the mission that its primarily reblsponsie for isav to
le e nobe man hind and we have a suicide rate of one every 65 minutes that's 22 a day and so
its goal is to recover these people." the special tribute included the 'lighting of the first fire.' the
fire was lit at two-twenty-two p-m to signify the estimated twenty- "the mission that its
primarily responsible for is to leave no man behind and we have a suicide rate of one ev mery
65inutes that's 22 a d day an gso itsoal o is tr recovethese people." the special tribute included
thhte 'lig ting ofhe firstfi re.' rethe fi was lit at two-twenty-two p-m to y signif es the d timatetwentytw o american veterans who take their own lives each day. this memorial provides
people an opportunity to honor and reflect upon the sacrifices of local veterans.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 6:34 AM

B_NOV_OREG_60

also developing out of klamath falls oregon state police are now leading the investigation into a
an officer involved shooting.. and police are saying that the man was armed, and seeking a
suicide by cop. right now you are taking a look at the map of where the shooting took place.
klamath falls police officers responded to a domestic disturbance call yesterday afternoon on
laguna street. when they got there, someone told police, that robert faulkner had walked off.
the person told police he was angry and had made comment about being armed and seeking
suicide by cop. an officer later shot faulkner after he saw him as a threat. police say that
faulkner was taken to the hospital, and is expected to recover. the case is under investigation,
and the da's office does not know if any charges will be filed.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 5:48 PM

B_NOV_OREG_61

veterans day is only once a year but we recognize and support our veterans all year long. and
that's what the veteran and family student association is doing at the u of o, angelina dixon tells
us how they are especially supporting veterans this week.>> veterans took to the emu building
thursday to help spread veteran suicide awareness. the veteran and family student association
hosted a 22-push-up challenge. it is to represent the 22 veterans who die every day from
suicide in the u.s.>> suicide due to ptsd, homelessness and family problems is another one. and
in addition to that, you put on the stress of school, and term papers. >> this week the
48

organization is focusing on the issue. a >> in addition to that, we are doing a clothing drive for
st. vincent's de paul. and, to clothe the homeless, on these cold days. with y generation, of a
vietnam homelessness is probably one of the largest issues with the current generation, raven
sermons works in the veteran center at the ufo. he understands where they are coming from. a
>> i was in the navy for five years. i worked on the pediatric ward.
KONG-SEA
Nov 14, 2019 • 12:11 AM

B_NOV_WASH_27

aaron hernandez is in the spotlight as part of this week's autopsy marathon on reels. the
program has the information what drove the patriots' tight end to murder and asks if a personal
tragedy played a role in his suicide. we have the first look. >> dr. michael hunter investigates
why nfl star and convicted killer aaron hernandez committed suicide. >> a medical channel
nearexaminer said the cause of death was asphyxia by hanging. what led him to take his life. >>
hernandez was serving a life sentence when he hung himself in his cell. >> what was notable
was the fact it didn't seem to phase him he would be in prison. >> he was just taking it like a
soldier. he was telling me not to worry, everything would be all right. he was good in there.
according to friends, aaron seemed remarkably comfortable in jail so it explained why aaron
killed himself, i need to understand how he became a convicted killer. i'm wondering where it
started to go wrong. >> dr. hunter's first clue is hernandez lost his father at 16. >> the impact of
this tragedy may mean his ability to deal with other people's feelings became impaired. at
college, he assaulted a bar manager over a disputed bill. a year later, he was accused of
shooting someone following another incident at a bar, but why he would commit murder is
still unclear and this his decision to take his own life. >> what changed aaron hernandez from a
football star into a killer and suicide victim? the answers are waiting in "autopsy." see more on
"autopsy" sunday night on reels
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 14, 2019 • 3:30 PM

B_NOV_WASH_28

all week 13 is saluting veterans and many veterans come back from war with physical injuries
but oftentimes it's the emotional struggles that we don't see that's taking a toll on veterans
livelihoods. in recent years data has shown that veterans are about twice as likely to die by
suicide than severely as kids are teens hannah. kim has the personal stories of two local
veterans at the highest peak of the columbia tower. my name is joe. this army veteran shared
the lowest point of his life. that's sometimes things just aren't as they appear. what you see i
was part of an elite team is a confident and outgoing man talking to a roomful of people about
his decade long service to this country as an apache pilot. i was somebody for tours in iraq and
one in afghanistan. the helicopter's so unique so advanced for joe and coleman and many other
veterans the terror of war takes on a different form when they come back home. i started to
unravel joe says he felt out of place in society and unable to connect with his family. and i
would just cry at night not knowing who i am not realizing i was more than an apache when he
was stripped of his identity as an apache pilot. joe says he felt so numb so lost he started
cutting himself back in 2016. he tried to end his life. i just know that i had i woke up
49

with a lot of wounds on my wrist. he's grateful he survived but he could have been a statistic
according to this year's report of the latest data available. the u.s. department of veterans
affairs says on average 17 veterans die by suicide every single day. joe says he's personally lost
four veteran friends to suicide. those are like good friends. people that were in my unit army
vet gary cashman doesn't know joe but he can relate. next you know you have a gun in your
mouth felt pretty much alone isolated and not worth it. gary attempted suicide just last year
and failed to get a little bit anxious. he feels me get kind of ramped up a little bit and kind of
sense that he says in the last decade he's lost nine military friends to suicide. you lock
everything up you don't share things you put on that face but when you get out you don't know
how to take it off you then you still put wrong it is part of your identity. there is that word
identity again nations wars now today are fought with 1 percent less than 1 percent of our
population. it's no wonder people come home and go. people don't understand me. i don't
know who i am and i don't know what to do? mike schindler with operation military family
cares says there are various reasons why veterans are resorting to suicide. but mike says a
common theme is a loss of purpose coupled with an inability to express their inner demons.
harper said there's a lot of people that are suffering behind closed doors before their suicide
attempts. both of these men were drowning alone in their own thoughts. every time i talk i
learn something new about something that might have happened i think about a certain way.
so how did they get through it. both gary and joe say big breakthroughs came with the small
steps something as simple as eating healthier. they say did amazing things for their mental
state. definitely a diet change help nutrition and eating better and making sure you know
you're drinking your water. joe says he also started to study himself. it's creating and finding
mentors. it's learning and being curious about yourself and realize their identity is more than
one thing your identity doesn't belong to something that you've done or something you've
accomplished. so now how do i want to exist in this new world of mine. joe stands here a proud
veteran but also someone who is constantly evolving i'm a person with a big heart who wants
to help people realize that they matter in this world. just an eye opening interview there joe
says he's learned a lot about himself through doing different activities. he's done everything
from woodworking painting learning how to play the guitar. he's also taking classes at the
university of washington right now his goal is to find new passions and a purpose in life beyond
the military so many of us can relate to that though because it comes down to self care right.
whether you're civilian or your military it's yourself caring that we take for granted. if there are
any veterans that are watching first off thank you for your service from the bottom of our
hearts. but if they're feeling isolated i'm going to assume here that the message is that they're
just not alone right. they're so not alone. i know they feel that way. but there are many
organizations and new ones popping up with veterans at the center of their focus for example
that room full of people we showed you earlier that joe was talking to as possible because of
the columbia tower club and this club recently formed a new committee to help veterans so
take a listen. within our community there are different organizations out there that are
interested in helping interested in engaging and also interested in hearing your story. and i
know that it can be hard for veterans to share their pain because as vet gary cashman told me
in the military community asking for help is looked upon as showing weakness. so there is that
stigma. but he says look forget that stigma because he says it's amazing what kind of doors
50

will open for you once you open up to others. yeah so if they want any more information you
guys really important to know. i want to leave you with organizations are listed on our web site.
if they want to find where they can go for help. all of that is listed on q 13 fox dot com. there's a
lot of help out there too. all right hannah thank you all know tonight.
KONG-SEA
Nov 14, 2019 • 7:04 PM

B_NOV_WASH_29

one republican congressman sent out a series of tweets that was a secret code. the first letter
of each formed a surprising message. here's more. >> it is the shocking secret code posted on
social media as the historic impeachment hearing unfolded. this congressman posted a running
commententary on the hearing, 23 tweets in all. the first letter of each tweet spell out a hidden
coded message. epstein, the cleat sentence reads epstein didn't kill himself, a meme that is
sweeping social media. the coded message buried in the sequence of tweets is not a prank.
arizona congressman paul gosart who is a supporter of president trump tells me he believes
there are serious unanswered questions about the death of epstein in prison when has been
ruled a suicide. >> what made you participate in that epstein didn't kill himself meme. >> it was
going around. it got a lot of attention and people started looking at our stuff. >> do you think it
is appropriate for a congressman to be participating in what is largely believed to be a
conspiracy theory? >> look at the facts. the facts speak for themselves. he is on his knees. i
think it speaks for itself. >> epstein didn't kill himself is everywhere. former navy seal mike
ritland appeared on fox news two weeks ago to talk about conen the hero dog when this
happened. >> my finished trained, fully trained and finished dog from a professional, or just
don't get one at all. epstein didn't kill himself. >> all right. , okay. thank you for that
commentary. >> you can by epstein didn't kill himself.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 5:04 PM

B_NOV_WASH_30

there are stunning new details tonight about what led up to the arrest of julie hillend jones. and
komo news was in court and we have the latest from tacoma. >> reporter: yes, the judge set
her bail earlier today at $50, 000. the prosecutors say that she has cursed at students in the
past, even recently fired a workers' compensation complaint over a mental health issue. in
court today the prosecutors said they believe she's a threat, even referenced that deadly school
shooting down in southern california. julie hillend jones was brought into court wearing a green
suicide prevention vest more than 24 hours after the prosecutors said she made comments
about ending her life. the 5-year-old threatened violence tuesday night during a phone call with
a caseworker who was handling her complaint about posttraumatic stress disorder when she
learned most ptsd claims are not cover and she might have to pay the costs herself, she got
upset and said, quote, i'm going to shoot the kids, even repeated that threat and eventually
hung up. >> coming from her, it is really left field. i can't imagine her saying stuff like that. >>
reporter: the neighbor was outside of the puyallup home as the deputies served a search
warrant to obtain a three-page document she wroteout lining what lid stowp the arrest. she
51

told deputies she was not in the right state of mind to understand her miranda rights and that
she would kill herself, and that none of this mattered. today the judge called the allegations
against her severe.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_62

I’ll leave you with a staggering statistic, on average 22 veterans commit suicide nationwide
every day. so people like lynn marie chowdury aren't just helping vets... they're saving lives.
reporting live in the studio. and during this veteran's appreciation week, the university of
oregon is holding a warm clothing and toiletry drive for homeless veterans. it’s a partnership
with st. vincent de paul you can donate shampoo, towels, razors, shaving cream and other
toiletries. there was also a "protect the 22" push-up challenge on campus today. it's meant to
increase awareness around veteran suicide. because a vet dies every 22 minutes. rosa
merrill/vice president vfsa "this is our veteran appreciation week, so we are trying to do
something every day. veterans day was a couple days ago, so we are just trying to really show
our presence on campus as veterans and dependants as well, family members.." duration 13
you can drop items off at the e-m-u frat and sorority life office or the student veteran
association office until the end of the month.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 14, 2019 • 2:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_31

Washington state will pay half a million dollars after a man died in a state prison it stems from
the death of Morgan Blue worse at the airway heights prison near Spokane who died by suicide
in 2014 attorney Ryan trevor scrap represents the family and says the Department of
Corrections did not take adequate steps to treat Blue worsen mental illness and held in solitary
to protect him from other inmates she saw the scale right you the individual who used to be in
protective custody because you are at risk but also was a ruse because he's mentally ill any's
and isolation are exhausted there's not in settling the case the agency did not admit
wrongdoing and has said that Blue worst repeatedly denied having suicidal thoughts.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 14, 2019 • 9:35 AM

B_NOV_WASH_32

it was standing room only a couple days ago at these members Presbyterian church I was
surprised when I pulled up there's no parking there nobody down the Street no parking on the
road no part in a McDonald's parking lot parking anywhere had partly L.A. it between everyday
you are whole area but I wasn't alone because so many people were rushing to go into the
church to hear this guy speak word got out that he was coming to town he spoke more than
300000 kids in the last two years and yet very funny but disturbing message regarding children
and social media is where this is from his Ted talk but this is sort of exactly what he talked
about two days ago real and across the globe we're seeing an epidemic Rice and the level of
anxiety and depression and suicide out among teenagers right here in the city you Ta andust
52

last 7 years our suicide rate among kids aged 10 to 17 has jumped 141% about 30 minutes from
resetting right now last school year an affluent community of chairman the top at one school
age kids to your life I want to share a few message I got from a couple yard box one was here in
salt Lake when an organ one organ said Colin every pediatric suicide attempt and completion
the kids will should be to one of two things number one I my current took my phone pursue
cyber bullying on social media is obviously had a girl suicide completion who overdose over-thecounter medication simply because dad took her phone she was 11 an E.R. Doc is selling to me
this he said we recently had a girl a suicide attempt because she found our message you're
going to summer camp for month packing fishing and hiking with a bunch of teenagers for a
whole month you can bring your phone by the way when she heard that with no mental history
she lashed out flashed her wrist and 5 mute twice from stitches but doctors said calling we
were only semi shocked it crazy he says you could save a lot of kids the thing caught a flip
phone with the great part about colin carson's speech was he took up the ticket down he
basically gave hope the and say look Here's the main thing parents need to stand up take this
pledge hand hard left him in the air right hand in the air and say you're ready I will not go home
and take away my kid's phone and throw it in the garbage everybody had to say that he's that's
not the solution doing that won't solve The problem okay as it did then he also talked about the
importance of making sure that you communicate with your children but the one great thing
you can do to make sure that your kids are not addicted to the phone and they do have
connections is probably the biggest amount of messages I get from kids besides number one is
social media's destroying my life number two is how I get my momma her phone at my mom's
younger need to get off her to give up my phone she's like why you're doing this why was your
phone it and I look at her she's she's got to do on interest Yeah pitchers he's on the phone all
day long to do for them I think one of the most important things to do and I was like that for a
long time it wasn't until I tell the cited a Ted talk in salt Lake and September I tell the story of
how I was doing I was doing the same thing I was on my phone all the time tried to help people
and raise money and do fundraisers in wasn't until my little 10 year-old said dad why do you
love your phone more than you love me he wasn't told why I went out bought one of these
guys are often seen one of these a foot a flip phone Yeah I for windows phone it and my home
we said rule my wife and I realized they were going to do our best to never let our kids see us
on our phones ever I don't Yeah I listen I think this is a great effort but the world is outside aid
your bleep the it's not like he would have to get to the United States of America would take a
boat as they weave vote to do away with smartphones or no restrict the access to smartphones
to no more than an hour a day for all officers on him and the world we're never going to do that
so I think you can protect your child it's like you know I have a brother who raise a kid who did
know he's being races vegetarian but he's also the guy that can go in the first 5 years of his life
is I know what to get that call is it to be there Yeah going to be available like you can't prevent
the world from you know sort of infecting is I don't mean that negatively would be no affecting
your child right so I don't know if that's that the healthiest way to do it but if we all had flip
phones the world might be a better place well I like instagram instagram is now is about to hide
likes me from some U.S. users it's just a test of the deadline but they see is the first step that
one of the problems about people Post on instagram as you look at here likes if you Post
something and people you know don't like get enough you you get to feel likes that causes
more anxiety depression and the people the Post right you Post a picture of you looking at I
53

never looked better and the Re people say I like the way you look right you're going to feel the
presence of they say one of the ways of battle that on instagram is to do away with the lights
because people are in a competition like that 17 like I got 7000 likes I got 20000 likes and saw
there they say this is their effort my objection has got a raise of the tease I realized those take
too long as most people deal with instagram says it's the content that's the problem it's not the
number of likes they're all these in other Ali's the use of the users bully they're feeling left out
other thing other people's lives better than their own it's not just the likes of like the justly
surface issued a much deeper issues with Instagram them that's right there's a couple different
pieces that are the problem and one of them is valuing of who I am by how many people like
me exactly it is the lecture I have given my kids a 1000 times given wine switches it means
nothing you have earned nothing and you lawrence leaving yourself to someone else's opinion
about yourself you are giving up what makes you unique as an individual to someone who
you've never seen you don't know you will ever meet have nothing in common with other than
the fact she follow one another on the stupid phone and itself but Tom and to just give up and
say welcome to Do the world is all around us is nothing to be done if we had kids dying at the
suicide rate.
KMVU (FOX)
Nov 14, 2019 • 7:30 AM

B_NOV_OREG_63

We are continuing to learn more about an officer involved shooting that happened earlier this
week in klamath falls. fox 26's lyle ahrens has the latest. the shooting happened at about 4-30
following a report of a domestic disturbance at a home on laguna street. police identified a 34year-old man as a suspect. "robert lee faulkner had left the house very angry, armed with a gun,
and indicating that he wanted to commit suicide by cop." the d-a says police found faulkner
hiding with a gun in a field next to the home. "upon making contact with him, there was an
altercation, shots were fired, and mister faulkner was taken to the sky lakes hospital." a
neighbor who declined to go on camera says he heard 5 shots. "have we identified that officer,
or that agency?' 'we are not going to release the involved officers names at this standpoint, but
it is with the klamath falls police department." oregon state police were processing the scene
for clues wednesday morning. the officer has been placed on paid administrative leave pending
completion of the investigation. "we anticipate there will be a grand jury review in a short
period of time." the officer involved was not injured in the incident. in klamath falls, lyle ahrens,
fox 26 news. faulkner underwent surgery at sky lakes medical center. at last check he was listed
in 'critical' condition. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there
is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273- 8255. you
can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KMVU (FOX)
Nov 13, 2019 • 10:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_64

a klamath falls man is listed in 'critical' condition following an officer involved shooting incident
we first told you about last night. it happened at about 4-30 tuesday afternoon when police
were called to a domestic disturbance at a home on laguna street. officers identified a 34 year
54

old man as a suspect. "robert lee faulkner had left the house very angry, armed with a gun, and
indicating that he wanted to commit suicide by cop." the d-a says an officer located faulkner in
a field with a gun, perceived him as a threat, and fired at faulkner. the suspect was then taken
to sky lakes medical center for treatment. the name of the city police officers involved have not
been released. those officers have been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard
procedure. the case will go before a grand jury once the investigation is complete. if you or
someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... you can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline at 1-800-273--8255.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 14, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_33

Washington state has agreed to pay a half million dollars to the family of the man who
committed suicide while in prison isolation cell Morgan Blue course died at the airway heights
prison near Spokane and 24 team attorney Brian D trevor scratched says mental illness and
being placed in confinement after getting repeated threats from other inmates but Blue course
at greater risk of suicide she cited the scale of individual who used to be in protective custody
because he is a risk he also is was at risk because of mental illness was in isolation I Sasa there's
despite the settlement the Department of Corrections does not admit any wrongdoing and said
Blue worse repeatedly denied having suicidal thoughts.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 4:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_65

for veteran's appreciation week, the university of oregon is holding a warm clothing and toiletry
drive for homeless veterans. its in partnership with st. vincent de paul you can donate
shampoo, towels, razors, shaving cream and more. there was also a "protect the 22" push-up
challenge on campus today. its meant to increase awareness around veteran suicide. as a vet
dies every 22 minutes.. rosa merrill/vice president vfsa "anyone is welcome, we are just trying
to broadcast that veterans/student veterans exist and it is a hard lifestyle sometimes, and
dependants, they have to go through a rough time like i did with my mom in the military for 18
years. it's awareness and comfort that we are here, and we are here for the students." you can
drop items off at the e-m- u frat and sorority life office or the student veteran association office
until the end of the month.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 14, 2019 • 7:16 AM

B_NOV_OREG_66

police are investigating a series of student deaths at the university of southern california in los
angeles. consider this -- since the fall semester began in august, nine students have died. there
the school says three were by suicide. police are looking into whether drug overdoses played a
role in some of the deaths. the university sent a letter to students on tuesday warning about
the dangers of drug use, particularly opioids. >> we do know that in many cases not at usc but
in our community fentanyl has been mixed with other drugs, and has led to many deaths and
55

overdoses. >> hundreds of students gathered on campus last night to talk about these losses,
nine since august. >> disturbing
KBNZ
Nov 14, 2019 • 6:36 AM

B_NOV_OREG_67

police in los angeles are investigating the deaths of nine students at the university of southern
california since the fall semester began just two months ago. hundreds of students gathered on
campus last night to discuss mental health issues and the recent deaths. police are looking into
whether drug overdoses played a role. the university sent a letter to students tuesday warning
about the dangerous of drug use, particularly opioids. >> i think they're trying to push the
responsibility off and like not being held accountable for like student deaths. >> yeah. >> the
school says three of the students died by suicide.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 7:03 PM

B_NOV_WASH_34

we are following a school shooting in california. two students are dead and the 16-year-old
gunman is in the hospital after turning the gun on himself. this happened in santa clarita.
officers swarmed the scene today at saugus high school . they began escorting the students
from school. as word spread distraught parents rushed to the school . >> once i heard he was
okay i felt a little bit better. knowing that other kids were shot was horrifying. >> the victims
families gather tonight at the hospital. >>> a puyallup teacher pleaded not guilty today. the
judge ordered her to stay 500 feet away from the school. >> reporter:'s shortly after walking
shackled into a courtroom. high school teacher, julie hillend-jones pleaded not guilty . she is on
administrative leave from high school in puyallup. according to court records a caseworker said
that the jones that i'm going to shoot the kids two times. authorities came to jones's house to
question her and she admitted to threatening to shoot kids at school. when an officer said she
would be arrested she said that it was bs and threatened to kill herself and ended all anyway.
>> i'm shocked. emerald ridge of senior nick adams of that they are still reeling after the arrest.
>> is a teacher it's her responsibility to teach students not threaten people. >> reporter: a point
that the judge and prosecutor today. they are entrusted with the safety of our children. and
when they talk like this it is concerning.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 14, 2019 • 10:05 AM

B_NOV_OREG_68

the state of Washington will pay half a million dollars to the family of a man who died by suicide
in an isolation cell in Washington prison the settlement announced yesterday stems from the
2014 death of Morgan Blue course at the airway heights prison near Spokane attorney Ryan
driver scrap represent Blue course this family he says Blue Horse faced heightened risk of
suicide because he suffered from mental illness because he was often in solitary confinement
due to threats from other inmates she does is still individual who used to be in protective
custody because he's a risk but also left wrist because he's mentally ill at ease isolation
56

adjustments however stress says the Department of Corrections fail will take adequate steps to
treat his mental illness and prevent him from taking his life
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 14, 2019 • 7:22 PM

B_NOV_OREG_69

this is ground zero of the great tea party what years a Goal that happened people double the
church's emphasis on Guyana Jonestown Guyana mass suicide and mass murder in new York
caller back in 1975 jim Jones we're jim Jones the religious co-leader Heath he called himself a
civil rights activist basically said this is what he can do that he said I love socialism I'm willing to
die to bring about but by did 2000 with make he said that the people's Temple two years later
those words nearly became a reality because 900 people more than 100 people say 9 11 and 18
people one-third of them children die a day the Jonestown massacre one worst mass killings in
American history Jones called himself the science was evangelical flock he let his followers to
this area in Guyana called jonestown he promised an agricultural and agricultural Mecca 80
agriculture rule paradise she called it with who have so there are no mosquitoes dared snow
snakes 72 degrees every day that was a lie are plenty mosquitos there plenty critters the people
want to get out there it was so bad I think about Jones is about his idea of socialism what it
meant to have a commune and everything else that everything fell apart because you know the
people congressman coming to see Colvin peoples Temple held up in the and Jim Johnson said
they're all coming forth now have to make the transition to the other side the rehearsal they
would be hearse these suicide drills they have suicide girls all the time and a that was that was
the thing is that people got so used to the drills they ever thought was really going to happen
and Really did happen and that was that was scary part because what happened is that win call
for suicide came up but the real deal kool-aid drinking hope that poisons jim Jones went after
the children first the baby's and two children he went after them first it all these mass suicide
rehearsals to see how the crowd responded with he was going to cause trouble and then he
made those people light up first it figured out that if he killed the children first the the parents
would have no reason to live anymore so we start with the baby's and when they did people
thought this is just rehearsal he's getting he's not telling the kids he would kill the kids in the
mini other kids being killed they said Oh I obviously have nothing to live for now could believe
that jim jones' men profess to have their best interest in mind what actually killed them or
lighting them up for death it wasn't until he saw the baby's frothing at the mouth and writing
they realize what is going on started with the baby's he told them to drink the kool-aid Yeah he
did it willingly those who didn't he would force it upon them and all the time Jones short them
they meet another place champ mother they did it because his wife was there and dad get not
far from the altar real for these children are sacrifices before the big killed all the parents and
all the other people in Guyana johnstown the baby's and two children go first because then the
parents really have nothing to live for easy to get the children season to convince them that if
they drink this if they drink the kool-aid they'll be able to meet in another place we are parents
another place meet them another place this is the evil I'm talking about or washing the children
brainwashed me children are dying there are no lives nothing to live for nothing to look forward
to being done by generation will be empty especially confuse people

57

don't have any salvation their own think books they want to be kids with them they want
socialism world they really did take a 1000 people whether they're your kids that's fine you
have to go on to should feel guilty about telling the kids going down the wrong path it's it's a
bad thing to point out when somebody like great defender tries to school people and tell them
they're doing wrong and you say some areas why would you pick out a little girl why would I
pick not taking the girl I see it before I'm a student of history this seems to be this attitude of
from do Ohhhhhh right in my ear or halt of doom is being permitted society's excuse to develop
this philosophy that we all need to die or that human life is no longer worth the whole setup
that we need to actually hold our heads down.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 15, 2019 • 9:15 PM

B_NOV_WASH_35

all week 213 saluting veterans and many veterans come back from war with physical injuries
but oftentimes it is the emotional struggles that we don't see that is really taking a toll on
veterans livelihood in recent years. data showed that veterans are about twice as likely to die
by suicide than civilians. keith 13 santa kim has the personal stories of two local vets at the
highest peak of the columbia tower. my name is joe. this army veteran shared the lowest point
of his life. it's sometimes things just aren't as they appear for joe wankel coleman and many
other veterans the terror of war takes on a different form when they come back home. i started
to unravel. joe says he felt out of place in society and unable to connect with his family. and i
would just cry at night not knowing who i am? when he was stripped of his identity as an
apache pilot joe says he felt so numb so lost. he started cutting himself in back in 2016. he tried
to end his life. i just know that i had. i woke up with a lot of wounds on my wrist. according to
this year's reported the latest data available the u.s. department of veterans affairs says on
average 17 veterans die by suicide every single day. joe says he's personally lost four veteran
friends to suicide. those are like good friends? mike schindler with operation military family
cares says there are various reasons why veterans are resorting to suicide. but mike says a
common theme is a loss of purpose coupled with an inability to express their inner demons
nation's wars. now today at fort with 1 percent less than 1 percent of our population it's no
wonder people come home and go. people don't understand me so how did joe get through it.
it's creating and finding mentors it's learning. he says he started to study himself but it wouldn't
have been possible without first letting go of the stigma and asking for help.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 14, 2019 • 11:11 PM

B_NOV_OREG_70

veterans day is on once a year but we recognize and support our veterans all year long. and
that's what the veteran and family student association is doing at the ufo. angelina dixon tells
us how they're supporting veterans this week. >> reporter: veterans took to the building to help
spread veterans awareness. they hosted a 22 push up challenge. it's to represent the 22
veterans that died everyday from suicide in the u.s. >> suicide, due to ptsd, homelessness and
family problems is another one and in addition to that, then you put on the stress of school and
term papers. >> reporter: this week the organization is focusing on the issue. >> in addition to
58

that, we're doing a clothing drive for st. vincent de paul. homelessness is probably one of the
largest issues with the current generation. >> reporter: aimened works in the veteran center at
the ufo and understands where they're coming from. sermons has been supporting his fellow
vets for a while at the university and beyond. >> we cater to all veterans. they don't have to be
going to school or even active duty yet. we just want them to know all of the resources
available to them. >> reporter: and it's your honor to thank everyone that served past and
present.
KFFX (FOX)
Nov 15, 2019 • 8:23 AM

B_NOV_WASH_36

two men from massachusetts are using running to raise awareness about veteran suicides. they
are trekking some 500 miles all the way to arlington national cemetery in virginia. and they're
off!brian tjersland chur-slind.and josh milich mill-itch -heading out bright and early from their
hotel in wallingford.as they slowly but surely make their way to arlington national cemetery
down in virginia.down in cemetery national cemetery down in virginia.josh milich / running for
veterans:"and the reason for the 500 miles was to do something so extreme that it would force
people to look." brian tjersland / running for veterans: "we wanted to do something so absurd
that people would take notice."and people -- are paying attention.the reason for this run is
simple -- to raise awareness for veteran suicide.josh milich/running for veterans: "people come
back from overseas and there's this stigma of being too strong to ask for help. it's ok to not be
ok." the issue -- is pretty alarming.according to national data -- 22 veterans take their own lives
every day in the u-s.that's 154 a week.both runners -- teaming up with mission 22.a non-profit
that offers treatment for everything from post traumatic streets to substance abuse.brian
tjersland / running for veterans: "hopefully what we're doing is tell them it's ok to ask for help."
both of these runners averaging 50 miles a day.and they're getting support from others who are
also concerned about this issue.jim lacoursiere/american legion dept. of connecticut: "we want
all veterans to know pick up the phone talk to somebody. it is ok to ask for help." jeffrey
declerck/american legion dept. of connecticut: "most times one positive contact can not only
change a life but it can potentially save a life." and that's the hope in all of this.as these guys
brave the elements.and the physical pain from such a run.josh milich / running for
veterans:"you can't train for something of this magnitude we did our best to get ready. we are
doing for the right reasons and that's enough to push us forward."
KLSR (FOX)
Nov 15, 2019 • 7:06 AM

B_NOV_OREG_71

22 veterans die everyday from suicide across the u.s. according to the veterans and family
students association. to lower the number the organization is holding a donation drive for
veterans at the u of o. the organization hosted a 22 push up challenge to represent the 21 who
die everyday from suicide. >> suicide due to ptsd, homelessness and family problems is another
one. and in addition to that, you put on the stress of school and term papers. >> today the
veterans and student association are encouraging everyone to wear red, it stands for
remembering everyone deployed over seas and across the world.
59

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Nov 15, 2019 • 6:07 AM

B_NOV_OREG_72

nation and friends join the nation asking why a 16-year-old would shoot fellow students. he
shot five classmates before critically injuring himself. two victims later died at a hospital. >>
three other students are recovering. around 8:00, the shooter stood in the middle of the school
quad, pulled out a gun and began shooting into the crowd of students. he used the final bullet
in the gun to shoot himself in the head but did not kill himself. the whole shooting took just 16
seconds before it was over. investigators are combing the student's past looking for clues as to
why he would have done this. >> we have not discovered a motive between the subject and his
victims other than to say they were all students at the high school together. >>> those who
know the shooter say he was a quiet boy scout. president trump reacted on twitter as that
shooting unfolded offering condolences to the family and the victims.
KMVU (FOX)
Nov 14, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_73

the condition of a man who was shot by klamath falls police late Tuesday afternoon, upgraded
from 'critical' to 'serious.' 34-year-old robert lee faulkner was wounded by police following a
domestic disturbance call. officers say faulkner was armed with a handgun and seeking 'suicide
by cop'. the officers involved have not been identified. they've been placed on paid
administrative leave pending completion of a full investigation... as is standard procedure. If
you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you
can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you
can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KLSR (FOX)
Nov 14, 2019 • 10:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_74

at least 22 veteran’s organization hosted a twenty- two push-up challenge today to represent
the twenty-two who die every day from suicide. die every day from suicide in our country. that
is according to the veterans and family student association. to help lower that number, the
organization is holding a donation drive for veterans this week at the u of o. there collecting
toiletries and warm clothing for homeless vets. the organization hosted a 22 push up challenge
today to represent the 22 who died every day from suicide.>> suicide due to ptsd
homelessness, and family problems is another one and in addition to that you put on the stress
of school and term papers. >> on friday the veteran and family student association encourages
everyone to wear red. it stands 10.... for remembering everyone deployed, overseas and all
over the world.

60

FM News 101 KXL
Nov 15, 2019 • 8:44 PM

B_NOV_OREG_75

the appearance of the of the other autopsy the corner that's what started flying and he was as
obvious He didn't kill himself a difference an intelligence officer they were throwing it into the
pop culture he really as I was looking over the Internet today trying to find references to Jeffrey
s seeding kill himself most of these references are means they're there generated means an
imprint needs these kind of will a large issue appearances like on Fox news on ABC news with
their interviewing people just out of the Blue they say jeffrey have seen in other maybe 4 or 5
of them on the Internet that I know of so it really hasn't if you have that kind of thing has really
been done enough I think to make an impact the means themselves are certainly interesting
the way they go around and how you know they didn't show up just an eerie feeling that I was
listening back to what your show you're talking about like need magic and how the effects of
mean it means and beyond I caught up with the right populous to write and edit it to me it's like
he said for guiding like most people like her get up now to them they just talk about the joking
side of the ball I see that I can see that I can see they can desensitize people I understand that
there are no say that they bring and impeach man and it's almost that the last food to try to
take it out of our minds to I think ahead since the impeachment this is increased in frequency
Seymour much every have seen didn't kill himself online since the impeachment the but
whoever is behind this pushing this mean they're pushing because they see the impeach was a
distraction to Jeffrey Epstein's situation and the fact that that Press Andrew Sanders came out
today in a Press conference talking about his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein it to the edge
though thank the people that you know I it's kind of a situation where you get when you're
being attacked by a bull leaders you know our big laugh gap by a bully they tell you all about
yourself that you will make them uncomfortable stop Billy you alone or laugh they're doing very
advice so and so playing word bully saying jeff Yes she did call themselves about they also move
to make a joke and and now everybody is desensitized the back House serious about to start
why they failed I think you have a very interesting concerns I think open the audience those are
you familiar with me jeffrey of state did not kill himself meme do you think it's turned into a
jokey think desensitize people already think strong attention to the fact that we're being
distracted by things like the impeachment things like said Prince Andrew what the media today
opened up about his relationship with jeffrey epstein and nassau can get reported the news
he's already silence another reporter and the world family said they would you know that they
would actually do horrible things ABC they allow this to happen so now they're taking control of
the frame so is there their part of the fray more to take hold of this frame frame in the way
they want to be heard so if you think this is causing harm like to hear from you you think it's not
causing harm then year freeze well thank you a differing I think it's a great question I mean you
you see that mean everywhere you know jeffrey fc did not kill himself getting marketed for
Christmas by the way a lot of Christmas decorations and things have that on it you know their
commercializing now houses a good thing or bad thing you think orde or anything that brings
attention to this mad men this monster may get some clues some truth out there which you
may or may not happen just depends on it because but then the other ones were like oslo
didn't act alone there was another phrase Oslo didn't act alone we have so many different once
wrote it conspiracy history that have attached themselves and I don't know anybody made
61

them jokes but is it a joke is this is this a joke that's the question because I understand where
he's coming from he's aroused saying I kinda chuckle a bit you know how people stuck in
sneaking into the conversation on the Internet I I kind of laugh that I don't laugh the fact that
jeffrey have seized in silence he didn't kill himself I don't I don't think it's funny but what I do
find interesting is the clever way is that these culture jammers are actually pushing it into the
site that's because that's what it is it's a part of culture jamming where you take something that
would normally be a lot no harmless you inserted into the zeitgeist and you you do with such
force and might mean magic like we talked about before and it takes on it takes a person of
personality zone % of zone then things start happening with they ramped up this whole Jeffrey
s did not kill himself saying Prince Andrew came forward now that could either be a result of
this sort could be just that and thought the timing was perfect for this lot of things about this
about this mean generation or about about means and mean magic in general the it certainly a
lot of people are not aware of that it's very powerful magic it's it's it's it's a cause engine using
the Internet as a cause the engine to bring about change using algorithms and means and and
and doing that getting the attention the people when there would be attention given otherwise
and so seeing something for me it is spilling over into the mainstream with all these people just
inserted light right left their conversations as so it's a very complex issue and of the things really
discussion I think there will be many people talk about this very important stuff that I know that
other mainstream talk show host Mark bring this stuff but it may not affected but it does affect
because what it's doing is sending ripple through the like guys sitting ripple through the group
think it either can turn into this horrible thing with there it is thinking this is some sort of you
know pathological conspiracy theory or could do a lot of that because people would say well
Yeah I believe he didn't kill himself as a matter of whether you believe he killed himself not
House series you take this story whether it's the other night I had a guy called as his people
don't care that's why getting we talk about have seen it people and all of that we do care they
care enough to you know have a comment about this jeffrey Yes he didn't kill himself you care
enough to understand the mean as you care enough to understand that maybe this means is
being used to get the attention of those who would normally have the attention of this that is
small align like Oz well didn't act alone you know 9 11 was an inside job jeffrey have he didn't
kill himself this is this is classic conspiracy theory but done on the medium level which mean
magic it's amazing how this happens.
Portland's CW
Nov 15, 2019 • 2:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_76

about two years into the marriage, things started to take a turn. he became possessive. he
started stalking her. he would show up wherever she was. she got so scared she contacted the
authorities. she decided to leave him. she packed her things and moved out. the next day, he
murdered her. he walked to her apartment building and he waited in the foyer. as she was on
the phone with a friend, she ended up opening her door to leave for work and her friend heard
a very loud scream. he pushed her inside and knocked her down. they fought for a few minutes
and then he stood over her and killed her. she told her she deserves to die. we later learned
that he had been under psychiatric care for 10-15 years. his last words to her were, you deserve
to die. after shooting her, he called me. mel: this was 2005? >> yes. mel: he murdered your
62

sister and then he called you? >> yes. mel: what did he say? >> the first thing he wanted to
know is if she was dead. the authorities on the news reports did not want him to know that.
they had mentioned that. there were two people injured. they kept him because he was on the
loose. his main goal was to make sure she was dead. it was the largest manhunt in the county.
schools and businesses were all on lockdown. they had armored vehicles. 26 police
departments. he was on the run for 10 hours that day. during those hours, i was able to talk to
him along with his psychiatrist. mel: you were on the phone with him for that long? >> it was
not the entire 10 hours but he would call me and stay on the phone for maybe a minute or 30
seconds. the police were trying to track him on our phones. to find out his location. mel: what
happened to him? >> he ended up taking his own life after 10 hours. i was on the phone with
him and i heard a noise and i had just said, i believe he might have taken his life. that was
confirmed by the police a few minutes after our conversation. mel: were there any warning
signs looking back? >> prior to her murder, not really. after, tons. yes. mel: i want to start to
unpack those with you. i want to start with the ones that are a little bit more subtle. was he
charming? >> very charming. when i met him, he had everything that i thought she needed. a
good job, a nice home, he was very nice. very intelligent. mel: that is typically the first sign. the
second sign that you may be dealing with a sociopath is that they are very self-centered and self
absorbed. what did you notice? >> everything was about him. not in the beginning, but as their
relationship progressed. as we started finding out more things about him, i believe he started
to get a little bit more afraid of losing her. that is when the stalking and obsessiveness and
control. he would threaten suicide. she would go back out of fear that he would be the reason
why he committed suicide. it was more under his control toward the end. mel: the third sign
that you may be dealing with a sociopaths is lack of empathy. you said he would use those
threats. did he ever show any empathy? >> not that i can remember. he was more about him.
he could not lose her. he did not want to lose her. no one else could have her. mel: the fourth
sign that you may be dealing with a sociopath is there is a high degree of intelligence. >> he was
very nice. he spoke with such high intelligence. you could have an intelligent conversation with
him. he was very charming. i thought he was the best thing that ever happened to my sister.
mel: the final sign is they start isolating both themselves and the people you love. you have
talked about it. what have you noticed specifically? >> the final time that i got to see my sister
was at a birthday party. this was after she had left him and they had just gotten back together.
he had threatened that he was going to commit suicide. so she went back to him. i was at a
birthday party with her. he had her right next to him. i know i wanted to talk to her because i
knew her demeanor, everything had changed. she looked very scared that day. the last time i
saw my sister, i can remember leaving the party and i got i contact with her. the last thing i
ended up saying with her, i waved and i said, good luck. that sticks with me today. it was luck
that she needed. it was probably somebody to pull her away and full her out. he had her so
isolated that they at the party that you could not get back to her. mel: what was it about the
way she looked at you at the party that made you say, good luck? >> the look in her face, i
would say, uncertainty, fear. i think it haunts our entire family because here is the guy who
everybody liked. you had him at your dinner table or over for the holidays. after this happened,
my mom had a lot of guilt. she said, i never knew that i was looking a killer in the eyes. he
fooled us off. -- us all. it is devastating. it has devastated our lives. mel: there are people
watching and hearing the story and they have somebody that they love that is with someone
63

who is isolating them and manipulating them. this is a show about warning signs. what do you
want to say to a family member that is watching somebody slowly start to become isolated like
you saw your sister? >> don't ever leave them. don't ever say, i have had enough. don't ever
say, i told her to leave. don't ever leave their side. at that i have done that. but i know that is
one of the biggest things. to have the victim feel so alone. they cannot just rise up. they cannot
leave. they need help in rising out. [applause] mel: thank you for sharing your story.
KXLY (ABC)
Nov 15, 2019 • 5:43 PM

B_NOV_WASH_37

next to the interview. prince andrew breaking his silence on jeffrey epstein. what he said about
a young woman who claimed she was forced to have sex with him when she was a teenager.
here's abc's eva pilgrim tonight. >> reporter: tonight prince andrew breaking his silence about
the teenager in this 2001 photo who says she was forced by jeffrey epstein to have sex with the
prince. the prince claiming in an exclusive interview with the bbc, he doesn't remember
meeting her. >> one of epstein's accusers, virginia roberts has made allegations against you. she
says she met you in 2001, she says she dined with you, danced with you at tramp nightclub in
london. she went on to have sex with you in a house in belgravia belonging to ghislaine
maxwell, your friend. your response? >> i have no recollection of ever meeting this lady, none
whatsoever. >> you don't remember meeting her? >> no. >> reporter: virginia roberts giuffre,
now a 35-year-old mother, says british socialite ghislaine maxwell recruited her at age 16, then
groomed her to become to be epstein's teenage sex slave. in court filings in a defamation case
against maxwell, giuffre claimed epstein ordered her to have sex with some of his powerful
friends, including on three occasions, prince andrew, in london, at epstein's home in new york,
and on his private caribbean island. >> he knows exactly what he's done, and i hope he comes
clean about it. >> reporter: as for ghislaine maxwell, she has not been charged with any crime
and has insisted that all of giuffre's allegations, including those about prince andrew, are false.
but tonight, the prince addressing his long relationship with jeffrey epstein. even after epstein
was convicted of soliciting prostitution from a minor in 2008 and became listed as a registered
sex offender, the prince seen in this video obtained by "the daily mail" appearing in the
doorway of epstein's home. >> the problem was the fact that once he had been convicted -- >>
you stayed with him. >> i stayed with him, and that's -- that's -- that's the bit that -- that -- that - as it were, i kick myself for on a daily basis because it was not something that was becoming of
a member of the royal family. we try and uphold the highest standards and practices and i let
the side down, simple as that. >> reporter: epstein died of an apparent suicide in jail, awaiting
trial for child sex trafficking charges. still, giuffre and dozens of epstein's accusers are vowing to
get answers. >> i won't stop fighting. i will never be silenced until these people are brought to
justice. >> prosecutors are looking into whether anyone else participated in or facilitated abuse.
as for the palace, they've released statements denying prince andrew had any sexual contact
with giuffre, and say he never witnessed any behavior of the sort epstein was convicted of.

64

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 15, 2019 • 4:16 PM

B_NOV_OREG_77

students at a california high school search for answers after a classmate opened fire killing two
students and wounding three more. they have yet to uncover a motive. >> police say it was the
gunman's 16th birthday. we are tracking the latest from santa clarita, california. >>
investigators estimated took suspected shooter nathan just seconds to pull a semi automatic
handgun from his backpack and opened fire, killing two classmates and wounding three others
before turning the gun on himself. >> we did not find any manifesto or diary that spelled it out,
any writings or suicide note, that would clearly identify his motives behind the assault. >>
authorities say gracie and was killed and they have not released the identity of the 14-year-old
boy who died. investigator searched berhow's home. he was described as a quiet and smart
student. >> taught him to play chess in middle school. i remember holding him as a baby. >>
saugus high school was close today and teachers, students, and families came to this church
where counselors are available. it is an emotional scene as people hugged and comforted each
other outside the church. >> it is a very special moment. there is a lot of reflection. >> the
shooting survivors are recovering well. a 14-year-old boy has already been released from the
hospital. a 14-year-old girl is expected to go home within the next few days. >> they held
composure despite being shot. >> the suspected shooter remains in critical condition.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 15, 2019 • 8:15 PM

B_NOV_OREG_78

agencies are only interested in stopping evil and stopping predatory apex predator criminals are
using the legal system to their benefit and then would bring in jeffrey epstein what happened
with him and his sweetheart deal and How he got away with what he got away with and
conspiracy theories are saying now well Jeffrey s seeding kill himself the SNL means going all
over the Internet they're winding up on the bottom of a beer cans one of the news programs
their way into that they have mixed feelings about it first of all we are making light of the show
the whole story I was making a lie it a jeffrey have seen by having this mean or drawing
attention to what happened because people are saying is not getting the attention the media
that that impeachment has some House side tracked at all I don't agree I don't think anybody
cared about I think the people care about the immediate care enough about it you don't get
people angry about it made sure their people have concern for all the horrible things that he's
done he's dead now the Boogie man is dead at least that's what we think he also earned
everybody can agree that wasn't murdered most people agree it was a the same lesson third
American Jeffrey have seen in films I don't buy that as for the first time in a conspiracy theory
history we have a conspiracy meme Jeffrey s Intel himself we're both right and left agreed
somewhat in the idea that he didn't kill himself this is the first this is something we all agree on
this is where you know the division the guidelines that it's his Genesis goes away gone you'll
agree together that's something about Jeffrey Epstein is not right and that is a complex
conspiracy theory has been reduced down to just one sentence like 9 11 was an inside job or
something else is out there the makes me they will make their marketing for Christmas that's
how big this thing it's the 20 on Christmas cards put it on T-shirts curve busy Jeffrey F steen
65

didn't kill himself Elf on a shelf health helps of of else that's what they got now you look up
much getting it's outrageous it's it's it's it's dark for the holidays 8.7 7.3 1.1 watt that's 8.7 7.3
1.1 one what are your thoughts on this need Jeffery if he didn't kill himself for me is good or
bad if you agree with that is is this something you think both right and left agree on and that
made it the impeachment is distracting people from this story and the story needs to come out
it's breaking through with this means around the Internet.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 15, 2019 • 5:02 PM

B_NOV_OREG_79

police in wilsonville oregon are investigating a work place shooting. investigators say a man
who was recently fired from a >> foods store returned to the business and fatally shot a
manager there. 36-year-old carl hellinger was killed. was specialty the man accused was taken
into returned to the business and fatally shot a manager there. custody af 36-year-old police.
25-year-old camilo santiago-santiago... is now sittign in jail. killed. the man accused was taken
into custody after standoff with medford police de police. 25-year-old camillo santiago is now
sitting in suicidal female armed with a knife... using non-lethal force. officers located the
woman suicidal female armed with a knife using behind the medford center officers safeway...
as she held a steak knife to her throat. behind medford safeway he she then ran from police
until th she could be cornered. that s when 40 minutes of negotiations bega help of crisis
intervention negotiations began officers... and jackson county mental health. the woman
suffered minor injuries... no criminal charge hel were filed. officers in jackson county mental
health. the women suffered minor injuries.
88.5 KNKX
Nov 16, 2019 • 9:40 AM

B_NOV_WASH_38

Jeffrey Epstein's death has become a meme now jumping from give St JPay takes too roadside
signs in college gameday the convicted sex trafficker was found unresponsive in his jail cell in
new York this dog is the cause of death was determined to be a suicide by hanging his
connections with its rich and powerful people fanned a conspiracy claims on both the left and
the right given birth to scores of Sly size that have no facts to support them that he didn't kill
himself for Epstein was murdered we're joined now by Don called well editor-in-chief of know
your meme thanks so much for being with us thanks for having me who's posting the these
memes N.Y. there's a lot of people participating in this name people on the left third Earth
thinking that ex-teammate and then murdered assassinated by a powerful people like Trump
while lot people on the right kind of promoted as being orchestrated by the clintons so there's a
lot of people that have been involved in this one with the number of groups and different
communit these people on the Internet Let's be really clear on something there has been an
investigation is there a shred of evidence to support this in terms of like hard evidence no but it
started in and out you realized in journalism when you finish the sentence hard evidence no
there is nobody perfect fit right Yeah for sure and but with the meme people are just getting his
name might not actually even believe that's completely true it's part of me missed you know
sneak the phrase Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself and to as the punch line to a joke as well
66

people again and like an image with a caption about instructions for had performed some kind
of tasks like we were eating candy corn but will sneak that message esteemed didn't kill himself
the very end and yet the game is that is how clever can you be you with sneaking that message
and I mean it sounds a little bit like Rick grow it is a little bit like rick rolling rick rolling is kind of
the iconic bait and switch name of the Internet and Yeah no way this is very very reminiscent of
were crowing a I had to be convinced to do this story because I didn't want to spread any
misinformation that's not what we do here it is important for people to recognize the
difference between memes and truth Yeah I mean you know there are times when you know
things that the conspiracy theories spreading and a medic fashion the have real world
consequences like pizzagate for example we know that now conspiracy theory spread online
and in a guy into a pizzeria with the shock on you know for years the National Enquirer was very
popular but people understood it was 6 And but there are people who believe names I mean
the monster their member of Congress true Yeah that's what the other reasons that this man
has had a lasting powers keeps popping up last week on Wednesday Republican congressman
Paul Gosar are posted a series of tweets the first champion during the impeachment hearings
against Trump and the first letter of each tweet spelled out the phrase abstinent didn't kill
himself and this technique has been used their names for many many years on the Internet the
technique of no hiding a joke message the first letter of each word has been a staple of of
Internet means for a while and Yeah the said Stephen name keeps gang was on Fox news as
well there is a and former Navy seal who was discussing military dogs in the context of the alBaghdadi raid dog and at the end of his interview he abruptly vanished help turn the camera
needs is to fully train an unfinished dog from a professional power is just don't know what all
that means that steam didn't kill himself Terra okay that so Yeah there's all these you know
these news items have kept this name trending and pop up and is like next done called El editor
in chief of know your name thanks so much for being with us
News Radio KEX
Nov 15, 2019 • 9:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_80

Jonathan Karl a 16 year-old boy killed two students and wounded 3 others at a southern
California high school before turning the gun on himself died Friday without investigators
discovering the motive for his attack on Friday captain can win with the L.A. County sheriff's
Department homicide be world suffice it to say we did not find any manifesto any diary that
spelled out any suicide note or any writings which will clearly identify his motive behind this
assault one of teenagers killed Gracie Allen Neil Burger 10 15 years old just last month
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 15, 2019 • 9:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_81

according to a rasmussen poll less than a third of Americans believe the esteemed commit
suicide of the esteemed means mean anything to the American public are deeply suspicious of
the closed rooms and dark fringes seem to be circling controlled world details NFC's death
alone in that camera this room guarded by two unconscious manner per really astonishing
Noble and yet there are psychologists and political analyst the claim the conspiracy theories are
67

pathological they harm people only the conspiracy theory harm's is the frame narrative and
that it that there is ever travel upon the media decides to manufacture concern and drags out
they spoke People to back up their opinions powerful people and intelligence agencies who
don't want the masses probing misdeeds are aware they have a crisis of credibility on their
hands for example the Royal family was pretty much a momma on Prince Andrew's relationship
with jeffrey epstein in fact there was a conspiracy theory but was later proved the fact that the
Royal family had told ABC news not to publish a story early presents story about Prince Sanders
relationship with jeffrey epstein and and one of his pay for hookers girls are rewarded and
whatever she was and so today actually Prince Andrew had made a statement to the BBC he's
going to be on the program on the BBC he said this presenter said I let my side down by staying
with jeffrey have seen after the billionaire financier was convicted of soliciting a minor for sex
so he's been under fire a lot because of his relationship with have seen now he says he kicks
himself with the decision stay with sex offenders saying it was not becoming a member of the
Royal family it reports the BBC news he says the problem was the fact that once he had been
convicted I stayed with him he says that the that's that I kick myself on a daily basis over
because it was not something that was becoming the Royal family he said we as the Royal
family have our highest standards we uphold the highest standards and practices I let my side
now those you don't know Prince Andrew has always been looked at as said up a part of this
but sex ring was going on with jeffrey epstein he's accused of taking part in an orgy with 9 girls
but Virginia Roberts who was pictured with his arm around her win over around her waist she
was just 17 years old she claimed their the they had sex on 3 occasions.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 15, 2019 • 10:34 PM

B_NOV_OREG_82

the truth of what happened inside manhattan's Metropolitan Correctional center until the
investigation that speculation and this well the such a high-profile inmate is jeffrey epstein was
able to power to take his own life with softer attempting suicide or just just don't want all of
that steam then killed himself tara thank you for that kind of very hard Michael maybe you're
an L.A. over hillary I have to a good question that is taking the fiel jeffrey it's Q3 killer Jeffrey
next two to 3 I do killed them all really Guilty mae one out there for you Hey that's the only real
name is embraced and is loved by the just real story today Golic lost Natan Epstein didn't kill
himself.
KAPP (ABC)
Nov 16, 2019 • 7:41 AM

B_NOV_WASH_39

welcome back to "gma." prince andrew answering questions for the first time about his
relationship with jeffrey epstein and accusations of sexual abuse, all in a no holds barred
interview with the bbc. this morning, prince andrew breaking his silence about the teenager in
this 2001 photo who says in court papers she was forced by jeffrey epstein to have sex with the
prince. the prince claiming in an exclusive interview with the bbc he doesn't remember meeting
her. >> i have no recollection of ever meeting this lady. none whatsoever. >> you don't
remember meeting her. >> no. >> reporter: virginia roberts giuffre now a 35-year-old mother
68

says socialite ghislaine maxwell recruited her when she was 16 and groomed her. in court filings
in a defamation case against maxwell giuffre said epstein ordered her to have sex with his
powerful friends including prince andrew in london, in new york and on his private caribbean
island. >> he knows exactly what he's done, and i hope he comes clean about it. >> reporter:
but now, the prince addressing his long relationship with jeffrey epstein. even after the
financier was convicted of soliciting prostitution from a minor in 2008 and was a registered sex
offender, the prince seen in this video obtained by "the daily mail" appearing in the doorway of
epstein's home. >> the problem was the fact that once he had been convicted -- >> you stayed
with him. >> i stayed with him, and that's the bit that as it were i kick myself for on a daily basis
because it was not something that was becoming of a member of our family and we try and
uphold the highest standards and practices and i let them down. simple as that. >> reporter:
epstein died an apparent suicide in jail, awaiting trial for sex trafficking charges. still, giuffre is
going to keep fighting. >> i won't stop fighting, i will never be silenced until these people are
brought to justice. >> prosecutors are looking into whether anyone else participated in or
facilitated abuse. as for ghislaine maxwell, she's not been charged with any crime and insists
those allegations including about prince andrew are false. >> it's amazing even after epstein's
death, these conversations and some of the investigations still moving forward. fascinating.
News Radio KEX
Nov 16, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_83

Britain's Prince Andrew denies allegations by accuser of late billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein
that at state arranged her to have sex with Prince Andrew when she was a teenager ABC easy
to build and claiming an exclusive interview with the BBC he doesn't remember meeting her I
have no recollection of a commissioner dismayed none whatsoever you don't Where men one
nation can get Epstein died of an apparent suicide in jail awaiting trial.
KNDO (NBC)
Nov 16, 2019 • 6:05 PM
B_NOV_WASH_40
tonight... five family members... including three children... have died in an apparent murdersuicide in san diego. police received a 9-1-1 call around seven this morning but heard no one on
the call... except arguing in the background. officers were sent to the home... and on the way
got another call from a neighbor... saying he was hearing arguing and what sounded like a nail
gun. when they arrived... they found several people in the house with gunshot wounds. we'll
investigate the incident. do a professional job. try to determine the facts of what happened
here. what led up to this. obviously the loss of any life is a tragedy. and a situation such as this
compounds that even more. a 31-year-old man... a 29-year-old woman... and a three-year-old
child were dead inside the home. a five-year-old and a nine-year-old died at a hospital. an
eleven-year-old was injured and in surgery at a hospital. there's no word on the child's
condition. police say they believe the shooter was one of those who died.

69

AM 860
Nov 16, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_84

5 people have been found dead in the paradise Hills neighborhood of San Diego police
lieutenant Matt jobs is those killed included 29 year-old woman a 31 year-old man and a 3 yearold boy with 3 other boys were hospitalized two died the third is in critical condition this is very
early in the investigation but it appears to be a tragic case of domestic violence murder-suicide
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 16, 2019 • 6:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_85

we begin tonight with news of a tragedy in san diego. authorities say five people, including
three kids are dead in a case of domestic violence in the paradise hills neighborhood on
saturday. police say it was likely murder suicide and police say one of the victims, 29-year-old
woman got a restraining order on friday. investigators don't know if the restraining order was
served but say the suspect the gunman may have been aware of it. they say the man came over
to the house saturday morning and there was a disagreement. they say he shot the mother of
his kids, along with their four kids with a handgun and then turned it on himself. one of the kids
is still alive and undergoing emergency surgery.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 16, 2019 • 10:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_86

federal prosecutors have offered a deal two Correctional officers regarding convicted sex
offender Jeffrey Epstein the night of the suicide of plea offer signals the Justice Department is
considering criminal charges in connection with Jeffrey Epstein's death at a New York jail in
August the guards are suspected of failing to check on him every half hour as required and
fabricating Journal entries to show they had as part of the plea deal they were to admit they
have falsified logs they have reportedly declined the offer the U.S. attorney's office in
Manhattan had no comment the city's medical examiner world after the epstein’s death a
suicide.
News Radio KEX
Nov 16, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_87

time show a secret interview with Prince Andrew's just cared in Britain he denies allegations in
court filings by virginia grew afraid that she had sex with him on 3 occasions the direction of the
billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein and British socialite Prince Sanders says that maintaining his
friendship with up steam after he became a convicted sex offender in 2008 was the wrong
decision I said unless that's that's the big lip lipton it so it's as well I kick myself for only a few
paces Prince claiming an exclusive interview with the BBC he doesn't remember meeting her up
I have no recollection of it for missions none whatsoever you do X or men one nation can get
AB Dean died of an apparent suicide in jail awaiting trial for child sex trafficking charges

70

KOBI
Nov 16, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_88

new tonight -- a rogue valley non-profit... is organizing an event next weekend... for people who
have lost someone to suicide. next saturday november 23rd... is international survivors of
suicide loss day. 'winterspring' is hosting the event for survivors at the smullin health education
center in medford. the event... begins at 10... and will feature a film about hope... a panel of
speakers will then share their stories of loss. the idea is to encourage discussion and give hope
to those who feel lost. 'people are coming together to honor their loved ones and to try and
inform us because it's a culture that really has this disenfranchised grief.' 'and don't be afraid to
say the word 'suicide', we instead of saying 'commit suicide' we talk about people dying by
suicide.' the event is free. if you have lost someone close to you and would like to reach out to
the organization... call and if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide...
there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis
counselor.
News Radio KEX
Nov 16, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_89

authorities in southern California say they still don't know the motive for this week's mass
shooting at a high school in Los Angeles County sheriff's Department says a 16 year-old suspect
shot and killed himself after opening fire on classmates Thursday Tsonga high school in Santa
Clarita captain can we hear of the L.A. County sheriff's Department says detectives have
interviewed over 40 witnesses however I want to reiterate that if there are people out there
are students or administrators people that had information about this subject or the incident
yesterday please call sheriff's homicide investigators believe the victims were shot and random
innocent.
AM 860
Nov 17, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_90

determining how a teenager who shot and killed two students in Santa Clarita California before
committing suicide obtained the gun correspondent jim group reports those affected by the
attack continued to recover for its new approach says Dr. dw Donovan the chaplain at Holy
Cross medical Center where two teenage grown gunshot victims were treated whole person
care it's a team medical spiritual and mental health professionals dealing with the physical as
well as the emotional trauma suffered by victims of mass shootings especially kids did process
is thorough and how managed term among is part of these has all the physical wounds will heal
the emotional spiritual and mental illness may have to be treated the rest of their lives I'm
memorial is being held today for the victims.

71

KDRV (ABC)
Nov 17, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_91

five people are dead including three kids because of a domestic violence case. police say it was
likely a murder suicide. it happened in a san Diego neighborhood. police say one of the victims,
a 29- year-old woman, got a restraining order friday. investigators don't know if the restraining
order was served but say the suspected gunman may have been aware of it. they say the man
came over to the house Saturday morning and there was a disagreement. police say he shot the
mother of his kids, along with their four kids. then turned the gun on himself. one of kids is still
alive and is undergoing emergency surgery. one of the neighbors says she heard the gunshots
and then saw a bunch of police outside. i seen, the ambulance taking people out of the house.
they took one body to the ambulance. they took another body to the ambulance and then they
took like a boy back here. because it was right in front of the car. he wasn't moving to the
ambulance. and then the last body they took, you see a little baby just lifeless. they took them
with sirens off and drove off." right now we are working to find out how the kid that survived is
doing. it is unclear how serious the injuries are. we'll have more on this during newswatch12 at
6.
News Radio KEX
Nov 17, 2019 • 8:30 AM

B_NOV_OREG_92

another community is dealing with loss after 5 bodies were found inside a San Diego home
thought Ferrari has details homicide detectives say this was a case of domestic violence and
resulted in murder and suicide happened a Granny flats connected to home in paradise Hills
neighborhood of Southeast San Diego homicide Lieutenant that Dobbs says units arrived within
minutes police say the father shot a woman and therefore kids 3 of those children dead the
woman as well then turned the gun on himself the other child undergoing emergency surgery.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 18, 2019 • 8:25 PM

B_NOV_OREG_93

we're talking right now with the environmental reporter Ashley her she is near the end of a
year-long Eco trust funded grow Reporting fellowship based at the map how Valley news in
northern Washington to even talk about this pocket in the world North central Washington the
you also went to Australia as part of this fellowship what brought you there I had a son I didn't
really wrestling with a curious about what I'm living with climate change does to our mental
health and I had heard of some some really interesting research in australia that was
connecting on instances of depression and suicide even to drought in room in New South Wales
and so I went there to interview ran farmers there heavily dairy farmers in that area and sheep
when sheep farmer who was really just a wonderful human being to talk to about their
personal experience with mental health challenges living on the front lines they have horrible
are having more horrible wildfires there now so these are folks that really mirror my
community on now and it was really powerful to be able to speak to other agricultural folks on
the other side of the world about very similar issues and they had very very similar I think ways
72

of seeing the world in terms of a fierce pride and self-reliance on the strength of their own
community to help one another and skepticism of a big government programs were not
wanting to take welfare handouts and there's just so many parallels between but you know
Cowboys and and farmers think all over the world share certain strains because that's a certain
kind of crazy did she do that for a living I would argue a wonderful how crazy it it one of the
stories you did from that research trip was as you're saying all that both mental health
problems and had also had its worst about arise in suicide rates among farmers and ranchers
that correlates with this massive years long drought after that came out of it in the paper in
Washington did you get responses from folks did you hear you know offline people coming out
and saying that resonated with me Yes and the interesting thing is I mean that no one has come
to me and said I had suicidal thoughts I want to talk about it to be clear right and there have
been some holes poked some data that shows like an exact correlation but Tween suicide and
drought in in Australia it was it was it's more depression I would say this the correlation
stronger rates of report self-reported depression actual suicide because of course his has so
many contributing factors that said I think one of the things I can say about being in the
community after the story came out is the kind of conversations in this weird way people felt
like I think they could open up to me a little bit about the difficulties of rebuilding say after the
big wildfires and some fears about how raising might change raising patterns might change on
the force service allotments after the Bern and fears about water in the future but Yeah I think
part of just being in the community and not leaving after the publication of those stories on it
did spark some interesting conversations.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 18, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_94

suicide is something that's never easy to talk about. as newswatch 12's adam schumes reports -- one north medford high school senior is using her senior project to make sure her classmates
can help each other in a time of need. inside north medford high school is a senior named
hannah ross hannah says' "i think awareness is really great" she is trying to bring awareness to
suicide and suicide prevention hannah says "i just wanted to make it known because its a really
hard issue" she is teaming up with jill jeter who is the medford school district crisis
communication specialist. " hannah spearheading a project like this can truly be saving lives at
north medford high school' hannah wants to make sure that her classmates are trained in
suicide prevention "i designed these t shirts for students who have been trained and we have
trained a 100 students at north medford high school. the training they receive is an extended
version of sos. which is signs of suicide so they can recognize warning signs of serious
depression and thoughts of suicide "its a two hour training where we go over some stats
regarding suicide, some stigma surrounding the topic and then we go over the different
warning signs. the students then serve as peer helpers as for hannah this is a topic that hits
close to home "a lot of my close friends know it was hard for me because i attempted suicide
last year" but hannah will tell you herself that last year is in the rear view mirror "i don't want
anyone else to feel like the way i felt so i used that to motivate me to push people more aware
because its hard especially in high school you have a lot of challenges to face" high school isnt
easy and that's why hannah wants to make sure her classmates don't go through it alone " just
73

being able to motivate myself and hopefully motivate others as well to keep on pushing and
keep going because the shirt says no one else can play your part" and thats hannah's message
for others jill tells me that they expect to train anywhere from another 50 to 100 students by
spring time. in medford adam schumes newswatch 12 student suicide prevention-fs if you or
someone you know is experiencing suicidal thoughts you can have call the national suicide
prevention lifeline. that number 1-800-273-8255. it is available 24 hours everyday following up
on the safety concerns at some josephine county parks.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 18, 2019 • 12:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_95

I had heard of some some really interesting research in australia that was connecting on
instances of depression and suicide even to drought in room in New South Wales and so I went
there to interview ran farmers there a hadley dairy farmers in that area and sheep when sheep
farmer who was really just a wonderful human being to talk to about their personal experience
with mental health challenges living on the front lines they have horrible are having more
horrible wildfires there now so these are folks that really mirror my community on now and it
was really powerful to be able to speak to other agricultural folks on the other side of the world
about very similar issues and they had very very similar I think ways seeing the world in terms
of a fierce pride and self reliance on the strength of their own community to help one another
and skepticism of a big government programs were not wanting to take welfare handouts and
there's just so many parallels between but you know Cowboys and and farmers think all over
the world share certain strains because that's a certain kind of crazy did she do for a living I
would argue a wonderful how crazy it one of the stories you did from that research trip was as
you're saying is all about both mental health problems and had also had its worst about arise in
suicide rates among farmers and ranchers that correlates with this massive yearslong drought
after that came out of it in the paper in Washington did you get responses from folks did you
hear you know offline people coming to saying that resonated with me Yes and the interesting
thing is I mean the no one has come to me and said I had suicidal thoughts I want to talk about
it to be clear right And there have been some holes poked some data that shows like an exact
correlation between suicide and Trout in in Australia it was it was it's more depression I would
say this the correlation stronger rates of report self-reported depression actual suicide because
of course who has so many contributing factors that said I think one of the things I can say
about being in the community after the story came out is the kind of conversations in this weird
way people felt like I think they could open up to me a little bit about the difficulties of
rebuilding say after the big wildfires and some fears about how raising might change raising
patterns might change on the force service allotments after the Bern and fears about water in
the future but Yeah I think part of just being in the community and not leaving after the
publication of those stories on it did spark interesting conversations in among special horse
people and agriculture folks that had been hanging out with why is that the youth voters a lot
of your reporting time and thinking to the emotional aspects of climate change anywhere.

74

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 18, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_41

the jailhouse death of a convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein has been surrounded in
controversy with others expected to be some criminal charges filed CBS's Pat Melton federal
prosecutors in new York are expected to file charges this week likely to stay again two
Correctional officers responsible for guarding millionaire ex-offender Jeffrey team the night he
took his life in his Own jails else the charges are likely to include for the fine print new record
that teen's death ended the possibility of a trial that could involve prominent figures.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 18, 2019 • 5:14 PM

B_NOV_OREG_96

police in Oklahoma are investigating a deadly shooting at a Walmart. a man and woman were
discovered dead inside of a car in a Walmart parking lot this morning. a second man was found
dead outside of the car. police say the shooter killed himself. nearby businesses and schools
went on lockdown as police investigated the shooting. it was lifted when officers said it was an
isolated incident.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 18, 2019 • 6:24 PM

B_NOV_OREG_97

new developments, criminal charges are expected this week against the guards of jeffrey epp
seen stein. officers had declined a plea deal. tonight, we learned they could be charged for
falsifying prison records. that is expected to happen tomorrow in connection to Epstein’s
reported suicide in august. he's the wealthy financier and convicted sex offender found dead in
his new york jail cell. we have learned the officers are suspected of failing to check on Epstein
every half hour as they were supposed to and of fabricating log entries to show that they had
done that.
News Radio KEX
Nov 18, 2019 • 2:35 PM

B_NOV_OREG_98

a deadly shooting outside a Oklahoma Walmart this morning is being called a double murdersuicide there were 3 deceased individual one female one male was found deceased in the car
and one male a silent or it appears the ring of fire into a car and a handgun was found alone
saying don't I don't Hey nikki least chief Danny Ford says the suspected shooter fired multiple
times the car before turning the gun on himself all 3 were familiar with each other but Ford
declined to release specifics PGe is sending out alerts to customers that will be shutting off the
lights.

75

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 18, 2019 • 5:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_99

we are the social safety net. it is about how we help folks have a better quality of life, whether
they face of elemental or intellectual disability, or they have a mental health challenge.
reporter: albertina kerr centers was founded in 1907 by free methodist minister william
maclaren, to help homeless men attracted by portland's lewis and clark exposition. mclaren
established the portland commons mission- and a year later the louise home for women and
children- which eventually expanded into the organization's 9 acres in what's now gresham. in
1910, alexander kerr of the kerr canning jar company, married homeless children advocate
albertina sechtem. she died of typhus in 1911. so, to honor her, alexander donated the family
home-for a nursery. alexander kerr and his 3rd wife ruth, bought property and raised money for
what became the albertina kerr headquarters off northeast 22nd and sandy. when the state's
fairview training center for people with developmental disabilities closed in 2000, albertina kerr
took those clients, and eventually expanded services to people with mental health challenges.
today albertina kerr serves 1500 children and adults-most in 24-hour residential care. with 70
locations in the tri-county and marion county, 55 group homes, 750 employees and hundreds of
volunteers. they are now expanding facilities to deal with oregon's mental health crisis. >>
suicide is the number one cause of death for adolescents in our state, so mental health is a
huge important issue) -- important issue. reporter: from kerr bikes-raising money and creating
jobs, to making a difference to our, -- art, albertina kerr centers brings mental health in oregon
out of the shadows and into the light.
KOBI
Nov 18, 2019 • 6:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_100

north medford high school students attended a unique assembly this morning. nbc5's mariah
mills tells us about a senior project... that is working to prevent youth suicide. nats from
assembly north medford senior hannah ross was inspired to spread awareness around suicide
prevention after going through some hard times last year. 'i didn't really want to talk to an adult
because i didn't well, number one i didn't feel comfortable and i am a pretty shy person.' it was
after a leadership class.. that ross met jill jeter.. a crisis communication specialist with the
medford school district. 'in april i went into leadership classrooms to hear 'do you guys feel like
suicide is a problem at your school? do we need more mental health awareness?' and it was
unanimous across the entire class that we need peer trainings.' over 100 students at north have
now received the signs of suicide training. it teaches them to recognize warning signs of serious
depression and thoughts of suicide, and act quickly by involving a trusted adult. 'talk about it
and how to be comfortable talking about it. how to be comfortable with the un- comfortable, i
guess.' for her senior project ross came up with the idea of designing t-shirts for the trained
students to wear... both at monday's assembly... and on the first day of every month. that way
anyone struggling can easily spot a peer who can help. 'just wanted be able to motivate others
through challenges that you make, be able to push yourself and pick yourself up again.' jeter
says it's been a completely student-led effort in partnership with 'united way.' 'united way paid
for the shirts, had the shirts screen-printed and delivered them.' as ross's senior project is
76

taking off.. she hopes that her idea can expand to other local schools. 'i want to train.. not just
at north medford high school but hopefully expanding into the whole school district.'
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 18, 2019 • 4:43 PM

B_NOV_OREG_101

dan: britain's prince andrew is getting hammered with criticism after a failed effort to explain
his controversial relationship with convicted sex offender jeffrey epstein. epstein committed
suicide earlier this year in jail. and questions have surrounded the pair's friendship for years,
something prince andrew says he doesn't regret. >> still not, and the reason being is that the
people that i met and the opportunities that i was given to learn, either by him or because of
him, were actually very useful. dan: a woman who was then-underage claims epstein trafficked
her to the duke of york for sex in 2001. photos show her with prince andrew, but he says he
doesn't remember meeting her. the palace isn't commenting publicly on the interview, but
british citizens are. >> it doesn't look good on the establishment, really, does it? i mean, they
try to uphold this sense of regality and i think he's let them down in a way. dan: prince andrew
is the son of queen elizabeth, and is currently eighth in line for the british throne.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Nov 18, 2019 • 4:39 PM

B_NOV_OREG_102

capitol hill is gathering up to question the bureau of prisons over jeffery epstein's alleged
suicide. for the first time a long silent prince andrew is speaking up about his relationship. >> an
all new interview, prince andrew spoke about it. >> britain's prince andrew is responding to
accusations he had improper relationships with minors. in an interview with the bbc, written
andrew said he doesn't remember meeting his accuser. >> she says she met you in 2001. she
says she kind with you, danced with you at trump nightclub in london. she went on to have sem
with you in a house in bell gravia belonging to your friend. >> i have no recollection of ever
meeting this lady, none whatsoever. >> you don't remember meeting her. >> no. >> the accuser
virginia's when she was 17, jeffery epstein forced her to have sex with prince andrew three
times between 2001 and 2002 in location ins new york where the prince was pictured with that
teen two years was a he was convicted for soliciting a minor. prince andrew said he regrets
staying at his mansion at that time. >> that's the bit that as it were, i kick myself for on a daily
basis, because it was not something that was becoming of a member of the royal family and we
try and uphold the highest standards and practices and i let the side down, it's as simple as that.
>> the new york post is reporting the two guards who were supposed to be watching epstein
turned down plea deals. that may suggest federal prosecutors are coming after the guards for
failing to do their jobs and false filing records to cover it up.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 18, 2019 • 10:01 PM

B_NOV_WASH_42

authorities in fresno california now say Sunday night shooting was not random unintentional
says Steve Gutterman Fresno what was supposed to be an evening watching Sunday night
77

football with family and friends turned into night of death and now police are looking for those
responsible for killing 4 and wounding 6 others investigators believe there could be linked to
another disturbance possibly a fight in the past week which involves several of those who were
at this Sunday night football gathering outside a Walmart store in Duncan Oklahoma near the
Texas border was the site of Monday's shooting police say two people were killed while sitting
in a car the gunman then killed himself authorities believe was an isolated incident there was
never an active shooter inside the store.
KTVZ (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:02 PM

B_NOV_OREG_103

good evening, i'm lee anderson. the holiday season is fast approaching, and while this time
brings lots of cheer, it can be a struggle for those battling with mental health issues. high
expectations of gift giving and receiving, perfect planning of events e...andreven likind ngla
reshtionwiips amth fily members can cause stress. signs indicating someone is ngbattli a mental
health issue are: ea incrbssed suabtance use, ti erravic behaor, in d creaseioisolatn, dramatic
weight gain or loss, and differences in sleep patterns. tt brown struggled with substance abuse
in the past. he's now an interventionist with "freedom interventions". he says the conversation
of mental illness still holds many stigmas . ### "i think a lot of times in family systems we look
at this and see a lot of shame," brown said. "we are afraid to talk about it, it's hard to talk about
it. as much as we know about health in terms of the body, when it comes to mental health, it's
a conversation that needs to be had. it's a stigma sometimes that gets at tached to that. if we
can find a way to take that stigma away and talk about it in a loving way, i think it's a path to
move forward." brown said this time of year can cause behaviors that are really a cry for help
from close relatives and iends. focusing on self care, realistic expectations, and doing something
for another person can help you cope with mental illnesses. ### each year, deschutes county
takes part in suicide loss survivor day, which happens the saturday before thanksgiving. rhea
panela spoke with a local loss survivor today. she shares her story with us now. ### ### an
average of two people die every day by suicide in oregon...the state with one of the ten highest
numbers of reported cases. carol palmer runs the bend compsionate friends bereavement
group. she also volunteers with the deschutes county health services, helping people through
their tofrauma losing a lneoved osu to icide. however, it's sometimes still difficult to relive her
own in pa. "my son was 21 when he suicided and he had an identical twin and an older brother
who was 24." the oregon health authority says the suicide rate among young people between
the ages of ten and twenty-four has increased. data shows a rise from seven suicides per ahundred thousand people in 20-10 to fourteen in 20-17. "they did not want to do christmas the
way we had done it ever again and we never have... i had no idea that had any liklihood of
coming into our lives at that time at all." but young pele and teens are not the only ones
struggling with thoughts of suicide. palmer says it's important to keep the elderly in mind. "the
holidays are a particularly difficult time for most people." she says many older people often
spend the holidays alone, which makes this time of the year an especially difficult one. "moving
to be near family elsewhere so they suffer a lot of lack of social opportunities and those things
that have sustained them in the past." i also spoke with whitney shumacher, the suicide
prevention coordinator for deschutes county health services. "the thing about suicide is it does
78

not discriminate. anybody can be affected by suicide and anybody in our community can have
thoughts of suicide." in deschutes county, shumacher says people are becoming more open
when it comes to talking auibout scide. and palmer says, that's a good thing. "part of the
challenge for people the world over is that there's been such a stigma attached to suicide and
mental illness." rhea panela newschannel 21. ### bend's suicide loss survivor day event takes
place at first presbyterian church saturday at one-thirty p-m. ### and if you or someone you
know is in need of help, head to the 'let's talk' page on our website. you'll find a variety of
resources. it's at k-t-v-z dot com in the community section.
KAPP (ABC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_43

a heavy police presence at the river pointe apartments in Richland today. the sheriff's office
and richland police attempted to serve an eviction notice. when they tried to, they heard a gun
shot. surrounding apartments were evacuated. the swat team was called and later went inside
the apartment. a man was found dead inside in what deputies say is a suicide. police will be at
the apartment for a few hours, but everyone is allowed back home.
KOHD (ABC)
Nov 18, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_104

the ben la pine school district has come up with a gun safe storage solution. brooke snavely met
with one of the owners. >> so what is suggested is to keep the ammunition away from
wherever the firearm is located. >> police have been preaching firearm safety for decades. now
bend-la pine schools will send similar messages to parents of 18,000 students. >> it will inform
parents, provide parents about why safe storage is important. it is not telling anybody what to
do. it is simply providing information. with information we can take action. >> the center for
disease control and prevention prevents nearly 80% of firearms in school shootings or suicide
came from the perpetrator's home or friends or relatives. had the guns been securely stored
some may not have occurred. >> it is kept out of reach of children. the only access is to an adult
with a code it is not easily attainable by anyone else. >> this resolution will hopefully prevent
school shootings and prevent accidents happening at home with a firearm. unintentional
shootings from a child finding a gun at home and also suicide by gun. >> there's also these gun
locks to put through the weapon. >> skidmore says she has heard only positive feedback from
gun owners for the safe storage solution.
KLSR (FOX)
Nov 19, 2019 • 7:51 AM

B_NOV_OREG_105

officials clearing up details that took place outside of an oklahoma wal-mart. two were found
shot and killed yesterday morning in duncan. the shooter is among those dead. he killed
himself. they're clarifying there was no threat to others at the store. >> there was no time
anybody inside wal-mart or anybody threatened inside. we want to make sure it's crystal clear
this happened in the parking lot and seems to be an isolated incident between the people
79

involved. >> four schools in the area were placed on lock down while officers investigated the
shooting.
KNDO (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_44

apartment complex today... and it all started with an eviction. emma childs was at the scene all
day. emma what happened? tracci and scott... benton county sheriff's deputies tell me they
were trying to serve an eviction notice at the river pointe apartments near where the duportail
bridge is being built. when nobody answered the door officers got the building manager to
open it.. that's when they heard a single gunshot. officers cleared the area.. evacuated nearby
apartments and called in for back up. richland police....benton county sheriff's deputies and the
tri-cities swat team arrived. after a few hours of barricading the apartment... swat broke out a
window and sent a robot in. they found a man dead inside. because it was a shots
fired...someboyd fired a round. we didn't know what the situation was. we went ahead and
activated the tri-cities regional swat team and so that's what we've been out her all afternoon
for...is letting the swat team go through their progressions the family is being notified....b-c-s-o
will be out there investigating for the next couple of hours. police did shut down parts of
duportail for a while...it is now back open. in the studio emma childs nbc right now. and please
remember -- there is help available, anytime. if you or someone you know needs someone to
talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your
screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:00 PM
B_NOV_WASH_45
court song one two corrections officers in new York city indicted on a federal charges accused
of failing to check in any major free up Stephen a he took this prosecutors say video
surveillance shows the guards sat at their desk and appeared to have been asleep at times
browsing the Internet for furniture and motorcycle at the scene had just been removed from
suicide watch but was left for 8 hours before he was found with a noose around his neck those
cards have pleaded not guilty their Union blaming staff shortages.

KVAL (CBS)
Nov 18, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_106

officials are clarifying details and deadly shooting outside and oklahoma walmart, two men and
a woman were found shot and killed in the parking lot of a walmart store, this was in duncan
this morning. the shooter is among the dead, and killed himself. the county's district attorney
now clarifying that there was no threat to others at the store. >> there was at no time anybody
inside walmart, anybody would've been threatened, inside that business. this happened in the
parking lot, and it appears to be a nice an incident between the parties involved. >> schools
were placed on lockdown earlier today while officers investigated that shooting.

80

KTVL (CBS)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:03 PM

B_NOV_OREG_107

the prison guards on duty the night jeffrey epstein died in prison are in custody in connection
with this death. both guards turned themselves in and will face charges for falsifying records of
conspiracy. according to the indictment, the guards were razzing the internet for furniture sales
and sports news. the guards were supposed to stop by epstein cell every 30 minutes of the
court records indicate that they did not look on him for eight hours. epstein died while awaiting
trial on federal sex charges, but before he went to trial, a new york medical examiner said he
hung himself in a detention facility.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 19, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_108

by the way you might have heard the last 24 hours again another national story but I think it's
important to the rest of us you really think jeffrey epstein killed himself and if you're saying
yourself jeffrey who while we're talking about the previously convicted pedophile suspected of
doing so many dirty nasty things to so many children and then supposedly he hanged himself
while he was in a high security jail cell in the city of new York being watched over a Stenson
played by a couple of guards and these guards all worked for the Department of Justice they
refused to take any kind of deals and now two of them have been arrested and they've been
charged so it sounds like this is not the end of it a lot of us believed I believed to the day we
heard jeffrey epstein had Committed Suicide allegedly was a Saturday morning that will that set
they will have the excuse not to look into this creep further but now now they're gonna go after
some of the guards who may have actually committed crimes and who knows may have
facilitated the killing of jeffrey epstein so today's Twitter poll after everything you've heard
about jeffrey epstein you really believe that he killed himself I would say no.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_46

new York Correctional officers who had been guarding accused pedophile jeffrey epstein are
charged with falsifying prison records WCBS sean Adam billionaire financier and convicted sex
offender jeff For Epstein wasn't on suicide watch at the time but officers of the Metropolitan
correctional Center were supposed to check in every half hour an indictment alleges toll know
well and Michael Thomas skipped their rounds and fudge reports to cover their tracks.
AM 860
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_109

staffers of the Metropolitan correctional Center in New York has pleaded not guilty after being
indicted today for allegedly failing to keep an eye on billionaire Jeffrey Epstein who committed
suicide on their watch last August correspondent steve asked about out two guards allegedly
81

sat at their desks and surf the Web for furniture sales in sports news instead of performing
require checks on the inmates in the special housing unit according to the federal indictment
the charges say it appears that tober know well and Michael Thomas fell asleep for two hours
while on duty.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 19, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_110

charges have been filed against two Correctional officers who were responsible for guarding
convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein the night he killed himself in new York city federal lockup
WCBS reporter John adams working overtime at the Metropolitan Correctional center hopeful
the well and Michael Thomas was a code still check on convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein
every 30 minutes an indictment alleges they did not and they want phony reports to cover it up
well at steam awaiting trial for new sex abuse charges he hanged himself in his cell both guards
have pleaded not guilty.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 2:22 PM

B_NOV_WASH_47

our Twitter poll today found out lars larson show also found on the website it lars larson dotcom after everything we have heard about jeffrey abstain do you still believe he killed himself
by saying now I don't think he killed himself that he was murdered I think the new analysis of
the autopsy they came out about a week ago pretty well establishes he did not hang himself in
a jail cell and I do hope that if the jail guards were involved in this in criminal activity they did to
them now an arrest and charging a charged in that crime alleged crime I hope they see full
prosecution today's Twitter poll.
KFXO (FOX)
Nov 19, 2019 • 4:16 PM

B_NOV_OREG_111

new charges today against the prison guards who were watching jeffre epstein in jail the night
he died. we'll be right back. ### two federal prison guards have been charged with the death of
accused sexual predator jeffrey epstein federal prosecutors say michael thomas and tova noel
failed t make mandated cell checks. they say the two then falsifie records on the night epste
killed himself. chris pollo reports. ### the federal indictment unsealed today alleges prison
guards tova noel a michael thomas "repeatedly failed to complete mandate counts of
prisoners" and inste "sat at their desk, browsed the internet, and moved around the common
area " of the speci housing unit at new york s metropolitan correctional center on the night
financier jeffrey epstein died. the indictment says surveillance video shows no one entered the
specia housing unit that night and no one checked on epstein over the course of eight hours
despite his cell being just 15 feet from the guard desk. the federal indictment unsealed today
alleges prison guards tova noel a michael thomas "repeatedly failed to complete mandated
counts of prisoners" and inste "sat at their desk, browsed the internet, and moved around the
common area " of the special housing unit at new york s metropolitan correctional center on
82

the night financi jeffrey epstein died. The indictment says surveillance video shows no one
entered the specia housing unit that night and no one checked on epstein over the course of
eight hours despite his cell being just 15 feet from the guard desk sound tom winter - n
investigative reporter :24- :3 "today's 20 page indictment doesn't really change the question on
what happened to jeffrey epstein, it ju provides us with a much more detailed timeline of what
happened that night or more appropriately wh didn't happen." the new york city medical
examiner ruled epstein s death was a suicid his lawyers dispute the finding and a forensic
pathologist hired by epstein family has claimed "th evidence points to homicide. natural sound
"this is a sex trafficking ring inside the united states. today, at a senate hearing, lawmakers
battered the director of federal prisons who was appointed afte epstein died. sound sen.
lindsey graham :55-:59 "do you concur with the opinion that it was a suicide? sound dr. kathryn
hawk sawyer - director of federal bureau of prisons 1:00-1:02 that was the finding of the
coroner sir sound sen. lindsey graham 1:03-1:04 "so you have evidence to suggest otherwise
sound dr. kathryn hawk sawyer - director of federal bureau of prisons 1:05 quick! " i do not"
epstein was a convicted sex offender who was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges when he
died his suicide stunned epstein s many accusers and their advocates. sound attorney general
bill barr august 12, 2019 1:15- 1:21 "this case will continue on against anyone who was
complicit with epstein." michael thomas s lawyer said there's been a "rush to judgment" and
that federal authorities are going after "the low man on the totem pole." chris pollone, nbc
news, new york.
News Radio KEX
Nov 19, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_112

federal prison employees facing charges in connection with the suicide of Jeffrey Epstein told
no well Michael Thomas allegedly falsified records to make it look like paycheck done jeffrey
epstein another MCC Manhattan inmates when they did not senator Mike lee Press Bureau of
prisons chief Kathleen Hawks Sawyer about it during a congressional hearing would that have
represented the lapse of protocol a lapse of a lot of things senator protocol policy following lots
of very negative things if a staffer not doing the rounds Union said blaming the two Correctional
officers For EPS teen's suicide will not correct the staff shortages that put this chain of events in
place.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_113

meantime, there is breaking news in the death of accused sex trafficker jeffrey epstein after he
died by suicide in his jail cell today two guards were charged with making false records to cover
up their failure to keep checking on him stephanie gosk has details. >> reporter: at a federal
prison in manhattan, jeffrey epstein was supposed to be checked on every half hour. instead,
prison cameras reveal the accused sex trafficker went unchecked from approximately 10:30
p.m. august 9th until 6:30 a.m. the next day when he was found dead in his cell, according to
federal prosecutors. in fact, during that time, no one entered the unit where he was being held

83

the official cause of death remains suicide. now the two guards who were on duty that night
face criminal charges, falsifying records and conspiracy according to the indictment, michael
thomas and tova noel sat at their desk, browsed the internet, and moved around the common
area. for two hours they appeared to be asleep. one of them had worked a double shift, 16
hours straight both pleaded not guilty when epstein was discovered, prosecutors say, thomas
told a supervisor we didn't do any rounds. epstein was being held in an eight-person special
housing unit in a cell just 15 feet away from the officers, put there because there were concerns
he may want to take his own life after an apparent failed suicide attempt two weeks before. >>
this incident was a black eye on the entire bureau of prisons. >> reporter: in a senate hearing
today the director of prison kathleen sawyer said she couldn't comment on ongoing fbi and
inspector general investigations into epstein's death. >> you say you can't testify about it but
the reason you're director now is because the last guy got fired, right >> senator, i can't tell you
what i don't know >> reporter: senator ben sasse growing frustrated that epstein's accusers
don't have answers. >> with all due respect, you still have an obligation to speak to the girls
who were raped by this guy. >> stephanie, emotions clearly running high at that hearing today.
where does this investigation go now >> well, multiple senators, lester, say they're going to
urge the fbi and the inspector general to wrap up these investigations quickly and get answers
to epstein's accusers, the answers they so desperately need.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:12 PM

B_NOV_OREG_114

two correctional officers are responsible for guarding jeffrey epstein will face federal charges
for falsifying prison records, the charges come this morning, his death was ruled a suicide he
was found unconscious in his cell at the metropolitan correctional center in new york. the
officers are suspected of falling asleep but falsifying records to indicate that they were checking
on him every half hour. as required, both correctional officers have been taken into custody.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:35 PM

B_NOV_OREG_115

two guards in charge of watching jeffrey epstein are charged with falsifying prison records.
epstein was accused of girls and trafficking minors. he died in a new york jail earlier this year
under mysterious circumstances, but it was ruled a suicide. the officers charged are suspected
of falling asleep on the job and later forging records to indicate they were checking on epstein
every half hour.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_116

two jail guards responsible for watching acute sex trafficker jeffrey epstein have been indicted.
he was found unconscious in his new york jail cell back in august. his death was ruled a suicide.
according to the indictment, the guards didn't make their required rounds and never checked
on epstein epstein. the two are charged with conspiracy and falsifying prison records.
84

KXLY (ABC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:40 PM

B_NOV_WASH_48

reporter: tonight, the two guards on duty the night jeffrey epstein died by suicide facing
criminal charges. tova noel and michael thomas are accused repeatedly of failing to conduct 30minute inmate checks and of falsifying jail records to make it look like they had. thomas
allegedly telling a supervisor, "we messed up. we didn't do any rounds." prosecutors say video
surveillance shows the guards "sat their desk and appeared to have been asleep," at times
browsing the internet for furniture and motorcycles. epstein had just been removed from
suicide watch, but was left for eight hours before he was found "with a noose around his neck."
those guards have pleaded not guilty. their union blaming staff shortages. today, the director of
the bureau of prisons grilled by senators about epstein's death. >> do you concur with the
opinion that it was a suicide? >> that was the finding of the coroner, sir. >> okay. do you have
any evidence to suggest otherwise? >> i do not. >> reporter: the pathologist hired by epstein's
family to investigate has said that the evidence points to homicide. federal prosecutors say
security footage shows no one entered the area where epstein was housed that night. >> so,
let's get to eva pilgrim with us tonight live, and you mentioned there the surveillance. epstein
was obviously a high profile inmate. authorities knew this at the time. and yet, at the time of his
death, a lot of people were asking, why wasn't there surveillance on his actual cell, a camera
there? >> reporter: well, cameras cover the hallways of the jail here, david. the only time that
epstein would have been monitored by cameras around the clock was while he was on suicide
watch.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 9:29 AM

B_NOV_WASH_49

are responsible for monitoring Jeffrey Epstein the night he killed himself now charged with
falsifying prison records they allegedly snoozed on the job and fake large to cover their tracks to
federal prison employees at the Metropolitan Correctional center we're supposed to check on
jeffrey have seen every 30 minutes they were both working overtime they allegedly fell asleep
for 3 hours and fudged the Reports they face charges that they falsified federal records of
felony CBS shot adams says have seen staff has prompted conspiracy theories from people who
question whether was even possible he killed himself in such a high security setting.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 10:47 AM

B_NOV_WASH_50

Queens authority's ruling as an engineer at Toyota killed himself after being constantly ridiculed
by his boss Will make its heart attack as a noisy case after a pool of rooting out alleged the
company saying its troops to prevent full of such instances in the future and expressed
condolences of the 28 year-old left his death an attorney for the victim and his family says it
was responsible for mismanagement for allowing the was harassment to continue he says the
young engineer whose repeatedly pulled in Egypt by his boss untold should die who could name
is being withheld for privacy concerns a punch.
85

FM News 101 KXL
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:35 AM

B_NOV_OREG_117

mom is worried killed himself had helped killing himself or was killed jeffrey abstain skies take
you know he was killed Dec he was killed either by the cleanse the Royal family for the uptick
one than a mistake that 0 say that your banana Yep thank you David I owe it all to say if if he
was murdered I don't think the clintons have anything to do with it I just think there are more
powerful forces Al Fitr who clintons Yeah well I mean the Royal family is way more powerful
than the clintons spos and I just love solve the problem by ice I'm still standing by so maybe
someone got to him and said listen we're going to make your life a lot worse it's best to you just
in it now and then somebody grease the wheels either he paid for somebody to look the other
way or somebody else paid for these guards to look the other way while he killed himself but
the investigation rolls on Yes it does it do you know who got the fortune me said been giving up
dad brother talked about a lot of these lawsuits still floating around out there to keep that from
happening Yeah as we're talking what billions of dollars right allegedly.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:07 AM

B_NOV_OREG_118

Let's get back to jeffrey epstein who didn't kill himself the latest on that I well way the two
Metropolitan Correctional center officers who didn't check in on jeffrey of steam the child sex
trafficker I guess allegedly whatever bad guy jeffrey of steam Yeah they were supposed to be
checking on him every he would every so often they've been indicted now they are told no well
and Michael thomas there's an indictment unsealed after they arrested today and in the
indictment it's alleged that no Allen Thomas falsified logs to conceal their failure to perform
their duties now there's a little tidbit in here that is interesting because we've been talking
about you know the layout of the prison and and you know how often they supposed to make
ground what did that really a tale their desk was 15 feet away from that scene sell a free throw
and holy smokes of domestic I can because they are bad at Rowe Hey woo Ah this is that your
comic snoring that there is pretty good you were done a pretty good woo look if you get a
different version of that I'm not sure I get a few assists in E think you can really Goods because
it now the indictment says they were sitting at their desk they were browsing the Internet and
moving around the common areas that hook completely demolishes this idea that the Union is
trying to say which is that while they're just overworked them they're all working overtime in
overtime they just have so much to do so wasn't sleeping know there are they're both looking
at Facebook or something okay I'm not an expert like some people claim to be when it comes to
someone hanging themselves you can't do that quietly right well not not in a place like that
where you're you actually have to struggle to try to get the leverage that you need and right
because those cells are supposedly at least designs where you can't really you don't exactly
have a high place from which to for all it 15 feet your 15 feet away from now Yeah and you
don't hear her something going on too much fat don't I don't know if I believe that Yeah not
buying that all and the backlash of Prince Andrew trying to distance himself from the deceased
0 yet seen all my gosh what a disaster in the UK.

86

KOBI
Nov 18, 2019 • 11:27 PM

B_NOV_OREG_119

north medford high school students attended a unique assembly about suicide prevention
today. after going through some hard times herself... senior, hannah ross.. came up with the
idea of designing t-shirts for students who are trained to spot the signs of suicide. the t-shirts
were worn during today's assembly... they're also worn the first day of every month.. that way
anyone struggling can easily spot a peer who can help. 'just wanted be able to motivate others
through challenges that you make, be able to push yourself and pick yourself up again.' the
effort to get students trained in suicide awareness and prevention is part of ross' senior project.
she hopes her idea can expand to other local schools.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 10:47 AM

B_NOV_WASH_51

Bureau of prisons employees were arrested today on charges stemming from the death of
Jeffrey Epstein and NBC'S erica Turkey has more over know well Michael Thomas were on duty
MCC Manhattan August 10th when Jeffrey Epstein died of suicide they were required to
perform repeated counts of the prisoners under their watch but instead for about 8 hours
federal prosecutors said they sat at that desk browse the Internet and moved around a
common area they're charged with falsifying records show they did their job what in fact
prosecutors said they did not know and thomas eventually made their rounds at about 6 30
a.m. they discovered the body of that steam who had been held on sex trafficking charges.
AM 860
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:25 AM

B_NOV_OREG_120

two corrections officers who were tasked with guarding F steam at the time of his reported
suicide I have just been arrested the two officers will face charges related to falsifying prison
records at the Metropolitan Correctional center we have steen died on August 10th while
awaiting trial for sex-trafficking both guards according to the new York Post were working
overtime they failed to check in on abstain every half hours they were required to do wonder
who's going to get arrested for the cameras she ugly not working two cameras both
malfunctioned they charged the cameras maybe is the cameras for is this giving the get a I
mean I don't know what you think but boy it sure feels like these guards are being scapegoats
for the esteemed quote unquote suicide.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_52

New York prison guards on true charged linked in on who's been charged linked to the suicide
of accused pedophile Jeffrey Epstein says the corrections officers are being made into
scapegoats WCBS sean have once they allegedly snoozed on the job and fake large to cover
87

their tracks to federal prison employees The Metropolitan Correctional center we're supposed
to check on jeffrey up steam every 30 minutes they were both working overtime they allegedly
fell asleep for 3 hours and fudge ports they face charges that they falsified federal records of
felony.
News Radio KEX
Nov 19, 2019 • 2:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_121

Federal jail workers have pleaded not guilty they were charged with crimes today staying for
the death of Jeffrey F scene in the hours preceding his August suicide Jeffrey Epstein was left
unsupervised two Correctional officers told no well and Michael Thomas was supposed to make
the rounds and mcc Manhattan but Did not and federal prosecutors said they adopted the law
books to make it look like they had according to court records no all admitted to a supervisor
we did not complete the 3 a.m. nor 5 a.m. rounds and Thomas said we messed up the Bureau
of prisons said allegations of misconduct are taken seriously and will be responded to
appropriately earn captors.
News Radio KEX
Nov 19, 2019 • 4:52 PM

B_NOV_OREG_122

got an update for you on the and steam situation I don't know it's not really an investigation it's
so a lot of things all tied together and you have the guards who the two guards who apparently
fell asleep in the Manhattan Correctional facility here in new York city and Eckstine and then it
seemed killed himself while they were sleeping they altered the law somehow to cover up what
happened I we're supposed to believe it's all a coincidence I just worse we're being told they
fell asleep it was an accident highs prove I think if there was one time in the careers of these
Juba cards not to fall asleep it was this time and they fell asleep I and add big she cranks me as
a look all coincidental told that this happened with this particular prisoner who might have had
and now we'll never really know information in his head about pedophilia and some of the
most powerful people wealthy people influential people in the world.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:32 PM

B_NOV_OREG_123

two prison guards have been charged with the death of epstein. they're charged with making
fosrecords and conspiring to defraud if united states. >> reporter: the federal indictment on
sale today alleges that two prison guards repeatedly failed to check on prisoners and instead
browsed the internet. no one entered the special housing unit that night and no one checked
on epstein over the course of 8 hours. >> reporter: today's 20 page indictment really doesn't
raise the question of what happened to jeffrey epstein. >> reporter: it was ruled that epstein's
death was a suicide. >> this is a sex traveling riping in the united states. >> reporter: today at a
senate hearing lawmakers battered the director of federal prisons who was appointed after the
f.b.i. >> did you concur that it was a suicide? >> that was the find of the coroner. >> reporter:
epstein was a convicted sex offender who was awaiting trial when he died. >> this case will
88

continue on against anyone who was complicit with epstein. >> thomas and noel has pleaded
not guilty. they could each face five years in prison if convicted.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_124

Tonight, there are major developments into the investigation of the death of jeffrey epstein in
prison. two correction officers are now facing charges, and mola lenghie reports on what we
learned today about epstein's final hours before his suicide. >> reporter: federal investigators
say tova noel and michael thomas failed to perform mandatory checks on convicted sex
offender jeffrey epstein, even though his cell was just 15 feet away. instead, prosecutors
alleged, the two officers sat at their desk, browsed the internet, and moved around the
common area ofhe the facility for eight hours, then falsified documents saying they actually
conducted the required half-hour checks. >> it is rare to see guards in the bureau of prisons be
held accountable in a criminal court for felonies. this is a big deal. >> reporter: epstein, arrested
on july 6, was being held at m.c.c. while awaiting trial on federal sex trafficking charges.l
according to the indictment, at. approximately 6:33, an alarm was activated. epstein was alone
in his cell and not responsive with a noose around his neck. today in washington, the director of
the bureau ofre prisons faced questions about the investigation into epstein's death in one of
her facilities. >> there's got to be either a major malfunction of the system or a criminal
enterprise at foot to allow this to happen. so are you looking at both? is the f.b.i. looking at
both? >> if the f.b.i. is involved then they are looking at criminal enterprise, yes. >> reporter:
the unione representing the two officers who both pleaded not guilty today say that the
charges sidestep the larger problem ofer chronic understaffing in federal prisons.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:42 PM

B_NOV_WASH_53

today congress held a hearing on the federal prison system and jeffrey epstein the bureau's
director was pretty much in the hot seat today explaining problems which may have
contributed to epstein's suicide back in august and as brian janus reports during her testimony
criminal charges were filed against the two men assigned to guard epstein this incident was a
black eye on the entire bureau of prisons the director of the federal bureau of prisons is grilled
about jeffrey epstein lawmakers want to know how the embattled financier was able to kill
himself in his new york jail cell in august at tuesday's hearing on federal prison oversight
kathleen hawks sawyer would only talk about general problems at the facility in three areas in
need of deep examination one is staffing one is training and the third is an emphasis in a
recommitment to the basics of sound correctional practice this as the two guards who were on
duty at the time of epstein's suicide are now facing criminal charges tova newell and michael
thomas quickly came under fire for failing to conduct routine overnight rounds including his cell
both men have surrendered on charges of falsifying records to show they did check on him
they're also facing conspiracy for the cover up they're accused of sitting at their desks browsing
the internet and napping instead of doing the required prisoner accounts director sawyer did
acknowledge the charges during her testimony we have some bad staff we want rid of those
89

bad staff who don't do their job we want them gone one way or another either by prosecution
or by termination epstein was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges in the meantime a lawyer
for one of the two guards says the men are being scapegoated for the death of such a high
profile inmate.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 2:22 PM

B_NOV_WASH_54

our Twitter poll today found out lars larson show also found on the website it lars larson dotcom after everything we have heard about jeffrey abstain do you still believe he killed himself
by saying now I don't think he killed himself that he was murdered I think the new analysis of
the autopsy they came out about a week ago pretty well establishes he did not hang himself in
a jail cell and I do hope that if the jail guards were involved in this in criminal activity they did to
them now an arrest and charging a charged in that crime alleged crime I hope they see full
prosecution today's Twitter poll.
KOBI
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:11 PM

B_NOV_OREG_125

two correctional officers responsible for guarding jeffrey epstein are facing charges. according
to reports.... the two correctional officers will face federal charges for falsifying prison records.
they are suspected of falling asleep... then editing records to show they had been checking on
epstein every half an hour as required. both correctional officers have been taken into custody.
the case has no bearing on the determination that epstein died by suicide.
News Radio KEX
Nov 19, 2019 • 6:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_126

The Epstein guards were to be charged today you might be asking the question which is a good
question I ask what crime did they commit nobody believes they hang them we know AB stain
didn't kill himself and nobody believes the guards killed him so why are they being framed it's
good they're being framed because now they'll talk it's a possible that two separate guards
both for manage not to be watching a guy who is on suicide watch a guy with this level of
importance who had tried a week earlier supposedly to kill himself so you know they are being
charged with which is good because now they'll talk that to cut a deal.
KONG-SEA
Nov 19, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_55

two guards who were supposed to be watching jeffrey epstein in jail are now facing criminal
charges themselves. accused of falsely stating that they checked in on epstein and other
inmates every 30 minutes. as steven fabian reports, epstein's body was not discovered until
they brought him breakfast at 6:30 in the morning. >> reporter: two prison guards have been
arrested over the death of tycoon jeffrey epstein, behind bars. the guards are accused of
90

sleeping on the job at this federal prison in manhattan. then falsifying documents to say they
checked on epstein every half hour. the 20-page indictment says that when epstein was found
dead in his cell, the guards told a supervisor, epstein hung himself, we messed up. fireworks
erupted in congress today, as the new bureau of prisons director was grilled over epstein's
death. >> christmas ornaments, dry wall, and jerry epstein. name three things that don't hang
themselves. >> number 1. there was gross negligence. or number 2 that it was not suicide but
rather a homicide, carried out by person or persons who wanted epstein silenced. >> reporter:
the latest epstein accuser to come forward, known only as jane doe 15, wore an "epstein didn't
kill himself" bracelet at hir press conference yesterday when she claimed epstein raped her
when she was just 15 years old. >> after, he wanted to talk to me about what had just been my
first sexual experience. and directed me to take time myself that night to cry. meanwhile, there
is more fallout from prince andrew's train wreck interview with the bbc. according to one poll,
only 6% believe the prince's denials that he had sex with epstein's accuser, virginia roberts
when she was 16. >> the u.s. has ordered an internal investigation into epstein's death. and the
fbi is investigating, quote, the possibility that his death may have been part of a criminal
enterprise.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 4:15 PM

B_NOV_WASH_56

jail workers have been charged with falsifying records of shacks on jeffrey epstein like that he
died that you have seen and coached guys now investigating criminal enterprise Jeffrey s seeing
staff the prison chief admits pain those two guards they indicated they were indicted sorry for
browsing the Internet for 8 hours instead of checking on a pedophile and then they lied on the
inspection forms the night he died you know how they knew me God somebody randomly
found him the chief did not the guards and soon as they came in contact with each other the
guard said I am We screwed up we check anybody by the way they were 15 feet from where M
seens cell was when he didn't kill himself Yeah I think what's really has made me sad about this
story and I think the Press folks on this enough is oddly these two men have committed suicide
so quickly after these charges were brought.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 12:18 PM

B_NOV_WASH_57

Ohio health officials say a suicide is the leading cause of death in children ages 10 to 14 ABC
Ryan Murray reports a study by the centers for disease control and Prevention shows to lot of
every 10 children in cleveland school district have attempted suicide Dr. Brittany Myers a
pediatric psychologist at Metro Health medical Center says the numbers have been going on for
some time time now we have numbers to say we need more resources we need more
monitoring we need more screening and and kids are in need of help she says poverty to best
to get community violence and separation of families can lead to additional stress on children
she says that the child reaches out about hurting themselves each should be treated like an
emergency and 9.1 should be called.

91

KEPR (CBS)
Nov 19, 2019 • 5:02 PM

B_NOV_WASH_58

shots fired in a richland department led to a four-hour long standoff this afternoon. the sheriff's
office says they were assisting on an eviction notice at the riverpoint departments when they
heard a shot fired from within. police took cover and called for immediate backup. the officers
unsuccessfully tried to establish communication with the person inside of the apartment. the
regional swat responded and after several hours authorities used a robot to look into the
apartment. authorities say they found the body of a deceased man inside of the apartment.
according to a commander with the benton county sheriff's office, the man died by apparent
suicide. other residents at the apartment building are now allowed in.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 10:10 PM

B_NOV_WASH_59

prison guards were on duty during the night the Jeffrey up steam killed himself apparently had
been taken into custody federal charges linked to their alleged failure to check on his well-being
the guards identified his told no well and Michael Thomas have been charged with making false
records and conspiring to make false records and defraud the United States by paring the lawful
functions of the Metropolitan correctional Center the new York facility or abstain was found
dead on August 10th.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_60

Correctional officers responsible for guarding accused of sex trafficker jeffrey have see the day
he died by an apparent suicide in Manhattan Correctional center had been charged with
falsifying prison records correspondent eleni and steen arrested on July 6 was being held at
NCC while awaiting trial on federal sex-trafficking charges according to the indictment and
approximately 6 33 and alarm was activated and steve was alone in his cell and not responsive
with a noose around his neck both officers pleaded not guilty and released on bond.
KHQ (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:20 PM

B_NOV_WASH_61

officers who were in charge of guarding jeffrey epstein the night he died... are now facing
charges. a grand jury indicted them for falsifying prison records... and this afternoon they
pleaded not guilty. epstein had been waiting to go on trial for sex trafficking charges... when
police say he killed himself in his jail cell. prosecutors say tova noel and michael thomas were
supposed to check on him every half an hour... but were actually sitting at their desk... napping
and browsing the internet. today both of them were released on 100-thousand-dollar bonds. as
the charges were coming down today... the director of the federal prison system was testifying
for congress about how the embattled financier was able to kill himself. but kathleen hawk
saywer would only talk about general problems at the facility. sawyer says "one is staffing, one
92

is training, and the third is an emphasis and a recommitment to the basics of sound correctional
practice." the lawyer for one of the two guards is insisting they're being scapegoated for the
death of such a high-profile inmate.
Fox 12 Plus
Nov 19, 2019 • 9:31 PM

B_NOV_OREG_127

two of the prison guards who were on duty the night jeffrey epstein died in prison -- are now
behind bars themselves. both guards turned themselves in -- after being accused of falsifying
records and conspiracy. according to just-released court records -- prosecutors say the guards
made up jail log entries to conceal they were sleeping and browsing the internet during the
hours they were supposed to be checking on inmates. they were just fifteen feet from epstein's
cell. a new york medical examiner said epstein hung himself while awaiting trial on federal sex
trafficking charges there have been several conspiracy theories by people questioning whether
he took his own life. in the new court records - prosecutors say security video confirms no one
entered the area where epstein was on the night he died.
KXLY (ABC)
Nov 20, 2019 • 6:02 AM

B_NOV_WASH_62

two bureau of prisons guards... arrested surrounding the suicide of jeffrey epstein... have
pleaded not guilty.the guards were indicted for failing to do required prisoner counts in the
hours leading up to epstein's death. instead... prosecutors say the pair surfed the web... milled
around the common area... and even appeared to be sleeping for roughly two hours. when they
checked on epstein at around 6:30 in the morning... he was dead. then... the indictment says
they signed false certifications... saying they had performed their duties. lawyers for the
guards... michael thomas and tova noel... say they're ready to fight the charges. (jason foy /
attorney for tova noel: "it is our hope that we'll be able to reach a reasonable agreement in this
case. if we cannot, after we've reviewed the evidence, we'll be prepared to defend them in this
case moving forward.")the guards are charged with conspiracy... and five counts of filing false
records. they are currently out on bail.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 19, 2019 • 9:11 PM

B_NOV_WASH_63

now survives arrived that officers some armed allegedly told him we messed up we didn't do
any rallies so they admitted to messing up not doing any round days the guy who was on
suicide watch like the day before all boy may stop it's not really sorry I he's played well okay I'm
leaving I should read dad Yeah I read that right back young win it 8 Super visors arrived after
the officers sounded the alarm your video allegedly told him when he got there Hey we messed
up we didn't do our rounds ladies and gentlemen and jobs or ever been kids you mean to tell
me you've been working for the new supervisor showed up and he said Hey boss I would do my
job well I never showed up in someone's been dead that's never happened and they can't take
okay I need to tell you where I stand on this because because I've I've come to a different place
93

for so jeffrey epstein pedophile billionaire hung with the the powerfull of the powerful I mean
you talk about connected this guy is next my level I think people really under estimated how
powerful he was I agree I don't think people know that know I think the editor on everybody Oh
my God I'm going it and anybody who's anybody by the way this ain't a left right thing I know he
had dirt or every product and right Yeah Yeah both sides right okay so initial lead thee he Yeah
he was put on suicide watch because something happened he did they say tried to kill us they
said they put on suicide watch he's off the the two guards don't check on him all night find him
dead on the floor the initial report suicide but there's some questions about it people like I
don't know I don't know powerful people got a lot of skeletons in a lot of different closets you
there there are probably some very powerful people that don't want this guy to exist anymore
potentially rat them out so at first like he he he got scared he knew what he was up against and
he cashed in his chips he was like you know what I mean taking care of myself in this jail cell is
going to Me 10 times better then what will happen to me if I don't but now now you're telling
me that the the these federal government is issuing like that but is it a criminal investigation
against to of the guards and also saying that there is some group that there's some some group
out there they think may be involved with this that's maybe really makes those sort of Nichole
wait conspiracy series kind of gives a little bit wait so I am I think I might be on the side of
shenanigans thank you I read about qet I keep seeing people say the they're all upset but he
didn't kill himself he didn't kill himself okay he wasn't are you mad at these days it might but
they don't they put this fake outrage like this do was a monster Yeah right right right you doing
to me like what are you guys say why did you want to do what the right thing happened to me
like they still know we we all got the same place we're speaking different routes to get that off
the bat I so Here's a guy that tried to kill himself already it he tried to kill himself and mace into
some broke this job right here if that was your job like Hey man in notice call Yeah now Yeah
he's already tried to kill himself to weren't right I got this right Hey I don't check this out people
I talk to working folks for your fault is already rich I'm covered but yet for this one offers a
citizen how folks abducted were at fault zone you know you know sometimes you get tasked
with the job and you're like Oh I don't do this shot right here Yeah this all our dad this Yeah Hey
G but Department O.J. S stay nobody said he tried to kill himself already we can't let it happen
again I look Al was go having js state but he didn't die in one my watch I eat right he's got a diet
all my why he is are arguably the highest profile person in that facility already people are
worried about suicide and stuff so you've got this guy watches supposed to do your job now let
me ask you this question I'm not saying I'm just saying I'm saying that about Let's say those two
guards have some other incentive.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 20, 2019 • 4:46 PM

B_NOV_WASH_64

britain's prince andrew is now quitting his royal duties after fallout surrounding his relationship
with convicted sex offender jeffrey epstein he says his association with epstein is a major
distraction to his work but the queen's permission he won't be making any public appearances
anytime soon the move comes on the heels of his controversial interview about his ties to the
disgraced billionaire or multimillionaire andrew says he regrets staying at epstein's mansion
after he'd already been convicted as a sex offender epstein committed suicide in jail while
94

awaiting trial for sex trafficking charges this past summer two prison guards who were
supposed to be keeping a close watch on epstein are now facing federal charges in connection
with his death tobin noel and michael thomas were allegedly sleeping and browsing the
internet instead of checking on epstein they are both out on bond after pleading not guilty
meanwhile the director of the federal bureau of prisons was grilled on capitol hill yesterday
we're still waiting for the conclusion of the investigation senate we have some bad stuff we
want rid of those bad staff who don't do their job we want them gone one way or another
either by prosecution or by termination of the two guards now face charges for falsifying prison
records after claiming they performed the required checks well despite nonstop outbursts.
AM 860
Nov 20, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_128

prison guards pleaded not guilty to charges related to the suicide of Jeffrey F staying will be
prepared to defend them in this case moving forward defense attorneys on to Tuesday
addressing charges against their clients to Bureau of prison's guards indicted in connection with
their actions the nice sex trafficking suspect Jeffrey Epstein killed himself in his cell a federal
grand jury charged Michael Thomas told no well with conspiracy and 5 counts of filing false
records the indictment alleges Thomas know well failed to do require prisoner can House in the
hours leading up to the Epstein’s death.
AM 860
Nov 20, 2019 • 10:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_129

jail guards responsible for monitoring Jeffrey Epstein like he killed himself or allegedly sleeping
and browsing the Internet instead of being on guard the guards charged with lying to prison
records to cover themselves jason for he's an attorney for one of those yards is our hope that
we'll be able to reach a reasonable agreement in this case if we cannot have to be reviewed the
evidence will be prepared to defend them in this case moving forward
KOHD (ABC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_130

a new class at the redmond proficiency academy students are thinking about how to give back.
they have $5,000 to give to a local nonprofit. a class called community 101. >> the moment i
saw it was helping out the community and volunteering and donating money to nonprofits, i
knew i had to join it. >> a freshman in the community 101 class at the redmond proficiency
academy. they are learning about nonprofits, community engagement and social issues in
central oregon. >> this gave me an opportunity to get kids out in the community and show
them the world is bigger than just themselves. >> the class was given $5,000 by the oregon
community foundation to grant to a local nonprofit of their choice. the nonprofit will fit under
one of the issues the class chose, mental health, suicide, substance abuse and child abuse. >> i
want to support mental health especially suicide. it is a big deal in lots of schools. >> to make
the class happen, bremont had to go through an application and wait for funders to approve
95

the grant. the most talked about social issue was domestic abuse. this year she found a
consistent theme among the students. >> overwhelmingly, mental health, suicide were among
the top. >> a lot of people in high school struggle with mental health. so it is important to a lot
of kids. >> students will visit local nonprofits and invid them to apply for the grant. the students
will help a local nonprofit while learning the importance of volunteering themselves. >>
definitely. i have talked to my mom. we need to volunteer more. >> local nonprofits interested
in applying for the grant can request an application e-mails c101 class @ gmail.com.
KNDO (NBC)
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_65

at some point the deputy is reporting shots were being fired in both the press release and press
conference released by franklin county sheriff...sheriff jim raymond leaves the situation unclear
if jones was shot by his officers did he have gun shot wounds i don't know i could not tell you i
have not been around any piece of part of that investigation despite the unclear answer
deputies are heard on the dispatch franklin county reporting in a shot suspect around the same
area of the incident. we have one detained he's got multiple gunshot wounds we believe there
is only one occupant in this vehicle we are on sagehill i believe we are just south of waluke west
of sagehill in an orchard after being asked about those reports raymond again declined to say
otherwise so you can't tell by the phone call or the report back to the dispatch you can't tell if
the suspect was shooting or that's what i am telling you yes not can't tell that nope can't that
was justin that was justin honore reporting.... we reached out to franklin county sheriff's office
today to give them the opportunity to respond about the autopsy results. they referred us to
the special investigations unit which is still investigating... police surrounded an apartment
complex today... and it all started with an eviction notice. benton county sheriff's deputies tell
us they were trying to serve an eviction notice at the river pointe apartments in richland.. no
one answered the door so officers got the building manager to open it. that's when they heard
a single gunshot. officers cleared the area.. evacuated nearby apartments and called in for back
up. so we go through some of progression with that as far as making announcements and trying
to get people to come out. that didn't happen so we ended up having to actually use some of
our technology robots and what not to make entry into the residence ....and ended up finding a
deceased male inside. deputies say the family is being notified... police did shut down parts of
duportail street for a while...it is now back open. and please remember -- there is help
available, anytime. if you or someone you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call
the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you
can also text 7-4-1-7-4-1.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 20, 2019 • 1:15 PM

B_NOV_WASH_66

a new twist in the case of a student charged in the death of her boyfriend who took his own life
prosecutors say 21 year-old Boston college student in Young Yoo was physically verbally and
psychologically abusive to her boyfriend Alexander urged to lot going so far as to repeatedly
urged him to quote go kill yourself and go die in the months prior to him jumping off of parking
96

garage which happened just 90 minutes before he was set to graduating this you made
demands and threats with the understanding that she had complete and total control over Mr.
urged tool both mentally and emotionally for representatives of view sharing with the boston
globe a series of texts that they claimed showed her trying to intervene in the final moments in
one exchange you allegedly writes I ask you why your location wasn't available are you kidding
me birth to replied I'm not going to be anywhere in yon this is goodbye forever I love you this is
it your fault it's mine your response what you're leaving the urge to live then responds I'm far
away on a tall place and I'm not going to be here for long I'm leaving everyone these messages
were just a fraction of the more than 75000 text messages prosecutors say were exchanged in
the two months leading to his death 47000 alone from you the district attorney's office is
declining to comment on the specific attacks but said at the time of her indictment last month
debut was with their to love when he killed himself the miss us tracking Mr. Poulos location she
frequently did mock her far she went to the garage in fact was present when Mr. virtual jumped
to his death this case initially drew comparisons to Michelle Carter who was recently denied
parole for involuntary may Manslaughter after authorities discovered text messages she sent to
her boyfriend Conrad Roy as he contemplated suicide in his arrived among Michelle text
messages I thought you wanted to do this the time is right and you're ready you just need to
deal with the boy died from carbon monoxide poisoning.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 20, 2019 • 6:11 AM

B_NOV_OREG_131

Two prison guards have now been charged related to the circumstances surrounding jeffrey
epstein's suicide. epstein was found dead while in custody on august tenth, as he was awaiting
trial on sex trafficking charges reid binion has the latest. montell figgins / attorney for michael
thomas: "mr. thomas felt that the plea deal was not something that the wanted to do." defense
attorneys on tuesday -- addressing charges against their clients... ....two bureau of prisons
guards -- indicted in connection with their actions the night sex trafficking suspect jeffrey
epstein killed himself in his cell. jason foy / attorney for tova noel: "it is our hope that we'll be
able to reach a reasonable agreement in this case. if we cannot, after we've reviewed the
evidence, we'll be prepared to defend them in this case moving forward." a federal grand jury
charged michael thomas and tova noel with conspiracy -- and five counts of filing false records.
the indictment alleges thomas and noel failed to do required prisoner counts in the hours
leading up to epstein's death. instead, prosecutors say the pair surfed the web, milled around
the common area, and even appeared to be sleeping for roughly two-hours. when they checked
on epstein around six-30 a-m, he was dead. then, the indictment says, they signed false
certifications saying they had performed their duties. thomas and noel have pleaded not guilty.
reid binion, newswatch 12 the guards were released on bail packages that include 100thousand dollars for each defendant. the local head of the union that represents federal prison
workers, says charges against the guards don't address fundamental staffing issues... at the
metropolitan correction center.
KEPR (CBS)
Nov 19, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_67

97

good evening, everyone. new at 11:00. the police are investigating a drive-by shooting near an
apartment complex. >> the police responded to a call of shots being fired in the area of north
tweed street and west food avenue. the call came in after 6:00 this evening. there are no
reports of injuries. anyone with information is encouraged to contact the police. >>> shots fired
in a rich land apartment led to a four-hour standoff this afternoon. the sheriff deputies say they
were assisting with an eviction notice at the river point apartments when they heard a shot
fired from inside. the police took cover and called for back-up. s.w.a.t. responded and after
several hours the authorities used a robot to look in the apartment. they found the body of a
diseased man inside. according to the commander the guy died by apparent suicide.
KEPR (CBS)
Nov 20, 2019 • 6:32 AM

B_NOV_WASH_68

a shot fired in original department led to a for our standoff yesterday afternoon. the sheriff's
deputies say that they were assisting with an eviction notice at the river point apartments. they
heard a shot fired from inside. please took cover and called for immediate backup. officers
unsuccessfully tried to establish communication with the person inside the apartment. they
responded and several hours later, the authorities used a robot to look inside the apartment.
authorities as the they found the body of a deceased man inside. according to a commander
with the benton county sheriff's office, a man died by apparent suicide.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 20, 2019 • 1:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_69

A couple found dead at their home after a homicide suicide Sunday but identified almost eric
kaine supports Pierce County sheriff's investigators say 50s 7 year-old boy in Cranston fatally
shot his wife while she was on the phone with 9.1 dispatchers reporting that her husband had a
gun by the time sheriff's deputies arrived at the couple's home Leanne Cranston was found
dead outside their House they've become the News Tribune reports the 48 year-old woman
died of multiple gunshot wounds dispatchers say Leanne Cranston was briefly on the phone
reporter her husband with a gun when they heard several gunshots two months ago they filed
for divorce after and so he made terror kinds.
KEZI (ABC)
Nov 21, 2019 • 5:23 PM

B_NOV_OREG_132

in tonight's project safe family: a new cdc survey found some students said they'd been
physically hurt.. but even more were cyberbullied -- through texting and social media.
researchers say victims are at risk of anxiety, depression, and suicide. one in three students
reported serious depressive symptoms. and 17 percent of all high schoolers considered suicide
in the past year.

98

KBNZ
Nov 21, 2019 • 8:44 AM

B_NOV_OREG_133

This morning we're learning about a surprising safe haven for veterans living with ptsd.
nationwide about 17 veterans die by suicide every sinegl y.daw nosome blthacksmi are building
new tools to help. chip reid takeos us t the shop where they're letting vets forge a new future.
>> reporter: in rural virginia, an ancient trade is being molded into modern medicine. >> it took
us from, you know, where we were just scraping and brought us to where we're living again. >>
they're like angels. >> reporter: those angels are steve hotz and dave seitz, gulf war veterans
who founded black horse forge to help military families like u.s. marine sean mack and his wife,
brittany. >> when you come here, it's like a different place almost. like all your troubles and
worries and everything like stay at the driveway. then you get a little relief. >> reporter: relief
that comes from literally hammering things out. >> you can come here, and you can blow off a
little bit of steam. you can tell us what your problems are. we're going to listen. >> reporter:
hotz had these blacksmith tools but no shop. sites had a shed on his horse farm but no tools.
they put it together and now teach classes to vets, active service members, and first responders
who learn how to transform something old -- >> hammering out -- >> reporter: into something
new. >> they go from railroad spike, prison shank, to finished blade. >> reporter: while also
transforming themselves. >> i hold everything in. and that might just be the marine inside me.
but i'm like a boulder. they've taught me how to crack that open and get some stress out and
talk about it. >> reporter: here, no topic is too hot. after all, even tough guys have a melting
point. >> i get texts sometimes in the middle of the night saying, hey, can economic to the
forge. -- can i come to the forge. they need that outlempt. >> reporter: they want to talk about
it. >> they want to talk about it. we're their couch, we're their therapist so to speak. >>
reporter: that's the tool they build together, trust. >> a comfortable place, a safe zone. >>
reporter: a safe place that's made a lifesaving difference for where who come here. >> when
the guy is able to lift the burden while he's here and then he's got to go home, how far down
the road does he get before the burden comes back? >> yeah. >> reporter: gets you emotional
even talking about it. why is that? >> i think it's because we're vested. we've seen it. >>
reporter: seen it in what they call saves. veterans comtemplating suicide who find a reason to
live here. >> three months ago my best friend up here tried to kill himself. literally, i got to his
house and basically pulled the gun out of his mouth. they helped him out dramatically. to the
extent that he said if he's hurting financially, we'll build knives and the put them on eastbound
ebay and give him the money. >> reporter: they fund the forge out their pockets, their way of
serving. >> we had a bad night and walked here at 5:00 in the morning, knocked on his door.
dave came out and just talked to us. >> we didn't have to fire the forge up that night. they just
wanted to talk. >> reporter: and find a way forward with new irons in the fire. bsfor "cmo this
"rning, chip reid, stafford, iavirgin.>> wow.>> y prett goodknives. >> yeah.me i an,ha tt's -- i love
that line, even tough guys have a melting point. it is so great what they're doing. >> that is a
beautiful line. making things with your hands is good for body and mind for them, for a loot oft
of people. >> incredible therapy.

99

KMTR (NBC)
Nov 21, 2019 • 5:54 PM

B_NOV_OREG_134

now to the former boston college student charged in her boyfriend's suicide. prosecutors say
she sent 47,000 text messages, some, they say, telling him to "go kill yourself." what she has
now released tonight. and here's will reeve. >> reporter: tonight, a former boston college
student charged with involuntary manslaughter in her boyfriend's graduation day suicide has
returned to the united states ahead of her arraignment. >> miss you made demands and
threats with the understanding that she had complete and total control over mr. urtula, both
mentally and emotionally. >> reporter: inyoung you of south korea is accused of manipulating
alexander urtula "physically, verbally and psychologically" abusing her boyfriend, sending more
than 47,000 texts in two months, some telling him to "go kill himself" or "go die." but this week,
you's legal team released more messages to "the boston globe," claiming to show their client
trying to intervene in those final desperate moments. the texts saying -- "if you expletive love
me, stop. if you ever expletive loved me, stop." we spoke to the suffolk county district
attorney's office who said these most recent texts were just a small fraction of what happened.
inyoung you will be arraigned tomorrow morning.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 21, 2019 • 8:25 PM

B_NOV_OREG_135

thanks to a local veteran support group, families of local veterans will enjoy a thanksgiving
meal. operation rebuild hopes, the group behind the veterans housing resource received $1200
from mckay's market. the manager of the empire store said it is the second year in a row they
were selected.>> brian's home is pretty special to us. my son was in the marine corps. i think a
lot of families have made it possible for us to be a part of that.>> patrick wright from operation
rebuild hopes said the number of mills they can provide has special significance. >> 22 residents
in the veteran community because of the 22 veterans that lose the battle every single day to
commit suicide. so, we just said we are going to do 22. we bought everything we would have
bought if we were shopping for our own households.>> if you are a veteran or know of one or
are a widow or widower or an orphan descendent you can contact them by phone or facebook.
those selected will need a veteran idea card on distribution day. that is tuesday, the 26th.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 21, 2019 • 2:25 PM

B_NOV_WASH_70

… I thought he was the person we should believe in what someone says were kind enough to
start a war and I got all these guns I think we should believe him and we were able to disarm
him temporarily and we'll see where he goes releases on our radar screen in we have his
weapons from am free year right that's right well if you broke up a plot the city attorney said
that taking the guns prevented a massacre this is just one guy who without guns that someone
would might like to know whether they're being targeted you giving information on who or
what was threatened so there was nothing that we found that showed that there was an
eminence about this he has a plan I have a date he was planning to start this war it was just a
100

general statement that his ideology was that he believed that the whites were under attack and
the whites need to fight back and he was promoting this race war now affect us what they
would shall as they were training race war now so it wasn't an imminent but it was concerning
enough that we could use the civil order he hadn't broken any laws we were prepared to
approve at that time we have this tool now I mean we used to mostly for God to help families
that are concerned about a suicide in their family when they have an Member of the family
whose late maybe fascinated by school shootings and is amassing weapons was talking about
homicide suicide in the past we've said well you there's nothing we can do about that that's not
true anymore not in Washington state we have this law and we can't act to prevent something
bad from happening and then again 75 last year and into the 3 of them were suicidal concerns
do you feel conflicted all about given tape what's the West were pros and cons you know it
maybe people are kept safe that we took someone's guns away who has the right to has have
guns no matter the ideology the feeling of conflict about this person I think in this particular
case especially after spent time looking at all of his writings and his videos this is a man who
believes in extremist violent things and and this is the out acting on and and gathering others to
prepare for war zone I don't feel any problem disarming the nazis that's fine and I did does it
mean for this is a slippery slope we're going to disarm everybody have to be something that
causes great concern for the safety of others King County prosecutor Dan Satterberg thanks for
coming in again.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 21, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_71

there's a new development in the case of boston college student charged in connection with
boyfriend suicide young you of South korea is accused of manipulating Alexander urged to lot
physically verbally and psychologically abusing her boyfriend sending more than 47000 tax in
two months some telling him to go kill himself or go die but this week use legal team released
more messages to the boston globe claiming to show their client trying to intervene in those
final desperate moments the text saying if you expletive love me stop if you ever expletive
loved me stop.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 21, 2019 • 5:56 PM

B_NOV_OREG_136

O'donnell: we wanted to share this story with you tonight. as two runners are nearing the end
of an epic journey, more than a million steps. errol barnett reports they're doing it to solve a
most urgent problem facing veterans. >> marathon enthusiasts brian tjersland and josh milich
are on the longest run of their lives-- 500 miles in 12 days, from massachusetts national
cemetery on cape cod, to arlington national cemetery in virginia. they're averaging more than
40 miles a day. >> we got 20 to go. >> reporter: braving rain, snow, and injury to raise
awareness of veteran suicides. we caught up with them in philadelphia. you say you want to do
somethingnt outrageous, something people would stop and see. >> yes. >> reporter: what has
the response been so far? >> it's been fantastic. it's competed anything we thought would
happen. >> they're using their passion for running to raise money for mission 22, a nonprofit
101

organization providing treatment to veterans suffering from post- traumatic stress. and to
veterans sitting out there watching from home who have been struggling what, would you say?
>> it's okay to not be okay. and no one's going to judge you for feeling the way that you do. >>
reporter: 17 veterans commit suicide every day in the u.s., more than 6,000 lives lost a year.
former indiana army national guardsman brian westerfield who served in iraq was almost one
of them. what was it that made you contemplate suicide? why? >> it's all the failures over and
over again. i stayed in that hole for so long, that i-- i didn't see a way out. >> reporter:
westerfield is now helping mission 22 counsel other vets. he's also backing tjersland and milich
on their mission to spread hope. there are people out there who need to hear this message and
it's worth every ounce of pain we're experiencing in these two weeks. >> reporter: giving it
their all to make sure no one runs life's course alone. errol barnett, cbs news, Baltimore,
Maryland.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 21, 2019 • 4:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_137

dan: new information tonight, the teen who killed two students and injured three others in a
California high school last week used what is known as a kit gun. parts to assemble one of these
weapons can be purchased online or at gun shows. since they are not considered firearms on
their own, buyers don't need to undergo background checks. they are also almost impossible to
trace. investigators say there are still many questions about a motive, they're also looking back
for potential warning signs. >> of the suspects mother packed corndogs, grapes and cookies
into the backpack of the suspect. that gives you an idea that even the mother was apparently
unaware. >> the sheriff's office is working with federal authorities to unlock the teen's
cellphone. he shot and killed himself at the end of last week's attack.
KREM (CBS)
Nov 21, 2019 • 6:12 AM

B_NOV_WASH_72

Prince Andrew has announced he will be stepping back from the public duties for the
foreseeable future. this follows a highly criticized tv interview about his close relationship with
convicted sex offender jerry jeffrey epstein who authorities say killed himself in a new york city
jail one of Epstein’s accusers say he or she forced or was forced to have sexual relations with
prince andrew while still under age at properties owned by epstein. the prince has denied those
claims.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 22, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_138

A 21 year-old former Boston college student accused of pressuring her boyfriend commit
suicide pleaded not guilty in the first courtroom appearance today WBZ James Rojas report it's
inside a Boston courtroom 21 year-old in young you showed little to no emotion while
prosecutors read out loud boulders and disturbing text messages she allegedly sent to her
boyfriend Alexander or to you has pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter and was
102

released on 5000 $ bail prosecutors say the couple exchanged more than 75000 texts in the
final months of their turbulent relationship.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 22, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_139

former Boston college student in young you pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter for
allegedly goaded her boyfriend into killing himself defense attorney Stephen can back never
seen in my entire career such not just and callous behavior by district attorney what I can only
conclude that cheap pursuit of headlights use and Alexander urged to more than 47000 text
messages and two months including some calling them worthless said urging him to kill himself.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_73

text messages to her boyfriend telling him to kill himself the defendant became physically
verbally this psychologically abusive prosecutors said her e-mail use and her boyfriend 47000
text messages in the last two months of their relationship encouraging him to go kill yourself
which she did on the day he graduated from Boston College Alexander who was 20 Pryor's his
relationship defense Minister who had no documents to mental health issues largest exhibit or
express any signs of depression or suicidal thoughts.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 9:00 AM

B_NOV_WASH_74

in Boston a former college student accused of encouraging her boyfriend in text messages to
kill himself has pled not guilty to involuntary manslaughter charges her attorney accuses the
DNA of trying to try the case in public you could charge my client but instead after the
indictment came down she waited several days for slow news cycle and then held a Press
conference and decided the paint a fragile up 21 year-old as a monster the entire world
Alexander tirrell a dive last may on the day he was due to graduate from Boston College.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_75

21 year-old woman on trial in Boston for allegedly encouraging her boyfriend commit suicide
Mullingar reports I athlete and young you stood silently as a prosecutor read dozens of
profanity phil tex messages that she said the 21 year-old center her boyfriend Alexander to
their I want a basher had to do with the ball game though don't think pete made the former
Boston college student is accused of physically emotionally and psychologically abusive or to
look through text messages which drove him to take his own life.

103

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 4:36 PM

B_NOV_WASH_76

today a former boston college student made her fist court appearance accused of encouraging
her boyfriend's suicide. the 21-year-old pled not guilty to involuntary manslaughter charges.
the prosecutors say she sent tens of thousands of text messaging some saying go kill yourself.
the d.a. says she had complete mental and emotional control over her boyfriend who jumped
to his death 90 minutes beef his graduation.
KTVZ (NBC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_NOV_OREG_140

a former boston college student has pleaded not guilty to manslaughter after she allegedly
encouraged her boyfriend to take his own life. jacqui ri heinorch repts ### a court appearance
for the woman charged in her boyfriend's suicide. prosecutors say 21-year-old inyoung you sent
tens of thousands of text messages -- many of them, encouraging him to kill himself -- and then
he did. ex alurander umtula jfrped om theof robo of a arston p gkingarage in may -- less than
two hours before he was supposed to graduate from st boon college. on f yriday,ou pled not
guilty to involuntary mahtnslaugkier. m sa .tys: ".o further punish the young woman who loved
this man... would only compound the tragedy that already exists." bail was set at five-thousand
dollars. authorities say you sent urtula around 47-thousand text messages, in the final two
months of their relationship. according to prosecutors, you had complete control over urtula.
...partially by threatening to harm herself, if he did not do what she wanted. rollins says: "we
are starting the long process of holding this person accountable for what we d woul esay
isusgregio and reckless behavior." you is accused of taking advantage of what prosecutors call
his 'spiraling es deprsion.' b dut herefense p teamoints to other text ag messeres, whtre she ied
to t prevenichis suide. this case is similar to another texting suicide case in the boston area. in
2017, michelle carter was sentenced to 15 months for urging her boyfriend conrad roy to kill
himself, through a series of text messages. she's appealing her case to the u-s supreme court.
jacqui heinrich, fox news.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:33 AM

B_NOV_WASH_77

reporter: 21-year-old sent abusive tax that led her boyfriend to kill herself and we are close to
the start of this so i want to do inside the courtroom. this is happening in boston right now
peter kim is finding the accusation levied by police. they released a chain of text saying she
tried to talk down. we will put these on the screen. these were released to the boston globe as
the two went to boston college. >> here is the thing, police say that she sent thousands of
abusive text ahead of these and that she was there when he jumped to his death from a
parking garage last may. we learned overnight that she returned to the united states to face
involuntary manslaughter charges. this is getting underway and we will update you.

104

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 22, 2019 • 12:04 PM

B_NOV_WASH_78

an issaquah high school graduate faced a judge in boston after police said she encouraged her
boyfriend to kill himself. she pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter. she sent her
boyfriend thousands of abusive text messages while they attended boston college. she
voluntarily returned to the u.s. after leaving to south korea. detectives say she was there when
he jumped to his death from a parking garage in may. late last month. kiro 7 spoke with a
former teammate of hers about the heartbreaking death. >> who knows what happened when
they are up there. and just, how could you see that? it breaks my heart. >> earlier this week, yu
released text messages showing she tried to stop him and alerted his brother in the moments
before his death. her bail was set at $5,000 this morning and she must surrender her passport.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_WASH_79

tens of thousands of text messages are at the center of a controversia criminal case in
massachusetts. a young woman is charged with involuntary manslaughter after her boyfriend
died by suicide. rehema ellis reports. >> reporter: yu voluntary returned to south korea to face
charges against her pleading not guilty to involuntarily manslaughter in the suicide death of her
boyfriend. the prosecutor alleged she was physically, verbally and psychologically abusive to
him. >> she repeatedly text him to go die, do us all a favor and go kill yourself. >> reporter: the
d.a. says there was 75,000 texts shared in the two months leading up to his death including
more than 47,000 from yu nbc news has not been able to review the original text. authorities
say he took his life in may in a parking garage the day he was set to graduate from boston
college. officials say you got to the garbage before he died and never called for help but
messages released by the p.r. firm she hired and obtained by "the boston globe" suggests she
tried to stop him he wrote this is good-bye forever i love you this isn't your fault. it's mine. you
replied please baby, please, stop i love you in a statement his family wrote, those who love alex
are continually feeling the sharp pain of his passing. what would you say to alexander's family
tonight she's free on $5,000 bail. yu a naturalized citizen surrendered her passport and must
remain in massachusetts until the trial is scheduled to begin next year.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:45 AM

B_NOV_WASH_80

we now have a live look inside a massachusetts courtroom that's coming in on our live channel
right now. a woman with issaquah ties which kelly mentioned earlier is appearing today in court
where she faces charges in connection with her boyfriend's suicide. inyoung you a former
boston college student faces an involuntary manslaughter charge. prosecutors say you
manipulated her boyfriend alexander urtula physically, verbally and psychologically. this week,
her lawyers revealed more texts that she tried to intervene in the final moments and you can
see her right there on the side of your screen.

105

KVAL (CBS)
Nov 22, 2019 • 12:07 PM

B_NOV_OREG_141

the woman accused of encouraging her boyfriend to kill himself pleaded not guilty to
involuntary manslaughter in a boston courtroom today. inyoung you is charged in the death of
alexander. prosecutors say they exchanged nearly 75,000 text messages in the two months
leading up to his suicide. some messages so her telling him to kill himself. a public relations firm
released text messages to show she tried to stop her boyfriend from harming himself. a judge
said her bail at $5,000 and she must surrender her passport.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_NOV_WASH_81

the former teammate Evan is a high school graduate who is accused of using text to convince
her Boston college boyfriend to kill himself she was in court today inside a Boston courtroom 21
year-old in young you showed little to no emotion while prosecutors read out loud vulgar and
disturbing text messages she allegedly sent to her boyfriend Alexander or two Mr. to discuss
how the debate own are true and he was persuaded outside the courtroom U.S. attorney
steven Cam went on the attack this so-called progressive views on this in an attempt to grab
headlines is expanding and broadening the homicide laws you has pleaded not guilty to
involuntary manslaughter and was released on 5000 $ bail.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 22, 2019 • 4:43 PM

B_NOV_OREG_142

a developing story out of the northeast tonight, a woman accused of encouraging her boyfriend
to kill himself pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter in a boston courtroom today.
inyoung you is charged in the death of alexander urtula. he jumped off the roof of a parking
garage in may, hours before he was supposed to graduate from boston college prosecutors say
you and urtula exchanged thousands of text messages before his death, some with her urging
urtula to kill himself. you returned from south korea to attend the hearing. >> we are
appreciative that ms. you brought herself back here voluntarily, but we're certainly prepared to
bring her back involuntarily if need be. >> but to further punish a young woman who loved this
man would only compound the tragedy that already exists. >> she will have to remain in the
u.s. a trial date is scheduled for next november.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 1:10 PM

B_NOV_WASH_82

a quote high school girl who's now returned from was in South korea Yes to face isn't
manslaughter involuntarily manslaughter and failure to report what's odd about all of this
because it sounded young like and there was a story a couple years ago where that girl all had
just told the guy to drive into the was like a warehouse store or in and she told him how to
commit suicide but carbon monoxide legend and she was just relentless but they have of the
106

the released the final texts between the guy who committed suicide and this girl who went to
his high school all and and she's it if you read the text exchange Yeah heartbreak I mean there's
so many have found 74000 he mean the final one vital ones it sounds like she had some regret
over what most of Transpired in mood tens of thousands prior to that but she said what are you
doing where the bleep are you are you kidding really really turn your location off you beings
whose blades when he left I knew you were going to go do that's and then he said I'm not
talking to anyone I won't ever again I'm happy I got to spend my last night with you I love you in
young until my last breath and then she said are you kidding me that's all you bleeping say he
said I'm not going to be anywhere in young this is goodbye forever I love you this isn't your fault
it's mind she said why are you leaving me and he said I'm far away on a tall place and not going
to be here for long the leaving everyone she said what are you bleeping doing if you're bleeping
love me stop if you ever bleeping loved me stop he said I did love you just not well enough she
said you got a bleeping leave mean to nothing he said goodbye and so she was clear and I don't
know what all that transpired in these earlier tax where they've decided to charge her with
involuntary manslaughter but clearly right Yeah and she was trying to beg him not to kill himself
and its site just based on those final tacks and him saying it's not your fault it's mine it's it's
been very interesting to watch prosecutors tried to make this case sick gets right in her defense
attorneys already saying that that you know it's an overreach on the part of the prosecutors but
when you see how she would ease were relentless she really was relentless and there's less
1000 what was she doing hon how do you even function in college when you're doing about
thousands and thousands of text every day right and then after his final text her she said and
I'm just guessing the scrolling through probably 75 just separate tax Alex please I love you
please talk to me I thought you loved me touch with love and it a she just went on and on but
she's sent hundreds of attacks just in those last minutes and apparently the first couple minutes
after he jumped up and can I let you hear what her innocence was her attorney Steven can get I
find it unfathomable that this D.A. S office this so-called progressive the softness in an attempt
to grab headlines is expanding and broadening the homicide laws to try to apply to this case
and this scenario to pay an incendiary portrait of an innocent young woman and as I said I want
to see because I it the text messages in that one where the girl went to prison for her for
contributing to the boyfriend suicide I thought she should have gone away for a lot longer I
haven't seen enough previous text know but certainly the texas Yeah and I think it will be tough
to prove manslaughter charge against her Yeah I think you're right but clearly she already
broken down after just 4 months and months this is an 18 month relationship but their loss I
mean just it the share toxicity social media and texting and and saying things that you would
never say somebody's face it is so easy to do and I will say something because there was also
where she was saying she was threatening to hurt herself so then he was feeling and she was
completely manipulating his a motion saying well you know I'm good start hurting myself and I
was like no I won't you know don't do that don't do that and that's just some of that stuff I will
say those kind of toxic relationship I hear you I talked to I have two boys Yes I talked to them all
the time about that because sometimes shared with me some things that they go through.

107

KOHD (ABC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:48 AM

B_NOV_OREG_143

a former boston college student accused of encouraging her boyfriend to take his life has
returned to the u.s. for arraignment today in massachusetts. prosecutors say inyoung you sent
47,000 text messages over a nttwo-moodh perito alexander urtula telling him he should kill
himself and die atand th's what he did on his graduation day. >> miss you made demands and
threats with the understanding that she had complete and total control over mr. urtula, both
mentally and emotionally. >> newly released text messages suggest that you tried to stop him
in the moments before his death. she's charged with involuntary manslaughter.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 1:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_83

high school student pleads not guilty to charges that she relentlessly prodded her boyfriend
take his own life 21 year-old in young you appeared emotionless and Boston courtroom today
as prosecutors laid out their case they say during the 18 months that they were dating you have
sent tens of thousands of attacks repeatedly telling him to kill himself decode died performer
soccer mate can't fathom what was in her head we did the math that's 700 E tax day that's a
full-time job I'm somebody that on the day he was to graduate from Boston College her
boyfriend died by suicide she pled not guilty today to manslaughter.
88.5 KNKX
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_84

attorney general William bars says the suicide of job financier Jeffrey Epstein was the result of
quote a perfect storm of screw-ups two correction officers were charged with falsifying records
from that August night cover up the fact they were sleeping or browsing when he took his own
life.
KXLY (ABC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 5:52 PM

B_NOV_WASH_85

attorney general william barr on the jailhouse suicide of jeffrey epstein. barr says he has now
concluded it was a, quote, "perfect storm of screw-ups" and said evidence proves epstein did
take his own life. barr added epstein should have not been alone, should have had a cellmate.
News Radio KEX
Nov 22, 2019 • 8:05 AM

B_NOV_OREG_144

the Senate has been having hearings about Epstein why is the Senate looking at that I'm a
nobody answered that's where that's where this quote came from Christmas horror much
drought all right a jury of state I name 3 things and don't hang themselves right but I don't
remember why the Senate is looking into it steams death anyway you believe that he didn't kill
108

himself correct and the way it fits into the jfk thing is it's just it's just it's just too hard to believe
home we're just discussing with Marshall Phillips so jfk get shot by a guy who traveled to the
Soviet Union the Cuban consulate in mexico all and then gets more urgent the day after should
the President just randomly in police custody sell high disposable we just are working on zone
just enough job I mean just doesn't make sense right even though they've never been able to
not locking that thing down same with abs steam although Avastin had reasons to kill himself
got you got the most powerful people a on the planet whoever reasons pre to be dead the
clintons and the Trumps the Royal family various Saudi princes and Russian oligarchs who he
couldo vo aa outed as people have sex with underage women which is obviously a career ender
Ono to be sold there there's a reason the digits there's just so much information that the socalled conspiracy seems more White Clay and both of these stories then me so called true story
but the way Fox looked into the steam thing in depth yesterday I thought this was named
interesting two correction officers tasked with guarding Jeffrey Epstein's surrendered to the fbi
Tuesday charged with one count of conspiracy for working together a cover-up in 5 counts of
falsifying records New York Federal prosecutors alleged both told no well and Michael Thomas
falsified documents indicating they were checking on prisoners in the special housing unit of
the Metropolitan correctional Center including apps deep every 30 minutes as mandated when
in reality they were not in fact according to the indictment the guards never checked on at
steve once in the 8 hours between 10 30 p.m. in 6 30 a.m. when every teen's body was
discovered with a noose around his neck instead of doing their jobs prosecutors say the guards
appeared to be asleep for approximately two hours said at their desks browse the Internet for
fresher sales and benefit websites and moved around the common area all while and steve was
inside his cell just about 15 feet from the guards deaths a lawyer for one of the guards says
they're being quote scapegoated this is Hamas is a single father of 3 children in this case is
going to ruin his life this incident was a black guy on the entire your prisons the arrest came as
the director of the federal Bureau of prisons Dr. Kathleen Hawks Sawyer was grilled on Capitol
Hill it Body yet B.O.P. yet been disciplined or terminated for their conduct that led to a different
standard we have some bad staff we watch rid of those bad staff they don't do their job we
want them gone one way or another either the prosecution or by termination director Sawyer
also confirmed the criminal investigation into ads teen's death is ongoing there's got to be the
major malfunction a system of criminal enterprise to put that to allow this to happen so we're
looking at both fbi can vote for that the fbi is involved they are looking criminal enterprise Yes
the director said she has not seen any evidence that indicates at steam did not die in a suicide
underscoring that point prosecutors revealed surveillance video showed Besides the two
guards no one answered the special housing unit were etched in was at any time during the
night he died bret I don't know I didn't know some of those details are had forgotten them but
the guards didn't check on him for 8 hours I didn't realize he was 15 feet from third Dacic for
some reason I was picturing my mind you know his way over there that weighing in after walk
away over there no way easy I never checked on anybody because I'm a government employee
can be fired so they spent 8 hours sleeping and shopping online 15 feet away from his cell their
job was to check on him every 30 minutes I'm not the least bit shocked that whether it's a dmv
person or a prison guard that they're not you know really a work that hard what they're
supposed to be doing but it there's a furniture sales of Yeah I don't know my my original

109

thoughts the day after happen was at third the prison guards but they never checked on
anybody they sleep.
AM 860
Nov 22, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_145

the attorney general of the United States were involved the verdict is in the death of Jeffrey
Epstein was Suicide they have the video tape nobody went in to sell quote from the attorney
general I can understand people who immediately whose mines wings to sort of the worst case
scenario because it was simply a foot perfect storm over screw ups sorry to disappoint you guys
against those memes going to have to die a slow death Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself as sort
of some he said we want a guy who was fishing poles the fish out of the war to find something
down the dollar to get his long neck ply is pulls it out it's a little fallout opens it as a piece of
paper of Fulton said Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself very way too short to global times said
about our guys and you're out of luck with that.
KVAL (CBS)
Nov 22, 2019 • 9:27 AM

B_NOV_OREG_146

families of local veterans will enjoy a thanksgiving meal. operation rebuild hope, the group
behind the veteran's housing resource received $1,200 from mckay's markets. they said it was
the second year in a row they were selected. >>> it's special to us. my son was? the marine
corps. we've been thrilled to be part of that. >> patrick from operation rebuild hope says the
number of meals that he can provide has significant relevance. >> the number of veterans that
commit suicide today, tomorrow, and the next day, we said we're going to do 22. we bought
everything we would have bought if we were shopping for our own households. >> if you're a
veteran or know of one or are a widow or widower and an orphan descendant, contact them by
phone or facebook.
KDRV (ABC)
Nov 22, 2019 • 11:36 AM

B_NOV_OREG_147

the former boston college student charged in her boyfriend's suicide made her first appearance
in court this morning. the 21-year-old says she's not guilty. trevor ault has the latest. this
morning-former boston college student inyoung you facing a judge for the first time- pleading
not guilty to a charge of involuntarily manslaughter in her boyfriend's suicide. nat court
prosecutors say the 21-year-old repeatedly urged alexander urtula to take his only life-texting
him thousands of angry profanity- filled messages, in the months before he jumped off a
parking garage-90 minutes before his graduation caitlin grasso: "do everyone a favor and go
fing kill yourself . dude just fing do everybody a favor and go kill yourself." the da claiming you
had complete and total control over mr. urtula both mentally and emotionally. but you's legal
team is pushing back steven kim: we should be better we should be finding ways to help young
people instead of prosecuting them. releasing other text messages to the boston globe earlier
this week- in one exchange you allegedly writing, "i asked u why ur location wasn't available,
110

are u kidding me." urtula replying, "i'm not gonna be anywhere inyoung this is goodbye forever.
i love you. this isn't your fault it's mine." later, after it became clear what urtla was planning to
do...you allegedly texted: "stop" "i'm crying please" "don't leave me like that" "if u ever loved
me stop" the district attorney's office is declining to comment on these specific texts, but in
court today said that she was with urtula when he took his own life. caitlin grasso: his girlfriend
- the defendant before you was present on the roof at the time the defendant jumped trevor
ault tag: in an agreement with you's legal team, the state agreed to just 5-thousand dollars bail, under the condition that she surrender her passport and stay in the united states for the
duration of the case. trevor ault abc news new york if you or someone you know is struggling...
there is help. on your screen you can see the national suicide prevention lifeline. it's a free
phone number that offers help 24/7.
KOBI
Nov 22, 2019 • 6:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_148

a local non-profit is getting ready for international survivors of suicide loss day. tomorrow...
'winterspring' is hosting a free event to support survivors at the smullin health education center
in medford. it starts at 10 and will feature a film about hope... as well as speakers to share their
stories of loss. if you have lost someone close to you and would like to reach out to the
organization... call if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is
help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
AM 860
Nov 22, 2019 • 4:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_149

just for those who clearly going to be disappointed the attorney general of the United States
were involved the verdict is in the death of Jeffrey Epstein was Suicide they have the video tape
nobody went in to sell quote from the attorney general I can understand people who
immediately whose mines wings to sort of the worst case scenario because it was simply a foot
perfect storm over screw ups sorry to disappoint you guys against those memes going to have
to die a slow death Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself as sort of some he said we want a guy who
was fishing poles the fish out of the war to find something down the dollar to get his long neck
ply is pulls it out it's a little fallout opens it as a piece of paper of Fulton said Jeffrey Epstein
didn't kill himself very way too short to global times said about our guys and you're out of luck
with that.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 22, 2019 • 11:35 AM

B_NOV_WASH_86

attorney general William bars says he initially had suspicions about financier Jeffrey Epstein's
death because of numerous irregularities at the New York City jail where steam is being held
birth said he concluded its gains August suicide resulted from a quote perfect storm of screw-

111

ups two Correctional officers responsible for guarding sting have been accused of sleeping and
browsing the Internet instead of checking on him.
KFFX (FOX)
Nov 22, 2019 • 11:24 AM

B_NOV_WASH_87

a florida fire department is looking to help their members... shake the stigma attached to post
traumatic stress disorder and depression. and they've got some furry friends to help out! nats:
"high-five... good girl!" miami-dade fire rescue is expanding its "response k-9 program" to help
the men and women who risk their lives everyday. mos says: "we witness a lot of ugly things as
firefighters." they're working with miami-dade animal services and the greyhound association
to adopt dogs of different breeds... and train them as station therapy dogs. campana says: "for
the first time in the 22 years that i've worked here we're now seeing firefighters embrace a
program that's good for their mental health, whether they know the science or not, the dogs
still work. you know they give a sense of calm, a sense of connection, which is absolutely
something that's vital when you're dealing with something like ptsd." captain shawn campana
started the program three years ago after losing six friends and co-workers to suicide and p-t- sd. here's how it works.. campana says: "they respond with the peer support team. after a tough
call the team is requested by the crews that ran the call and the dogs are part of the peer
response team and respond with the people you know, to do, the fusing." the goal... to ease
situations after firefighters handle a tough call. blandon says: "we are more exposed to
traumatic situations due to the calls that we go on for first responders and police, so the suicide
rate is higher than the general public." now with more pups in the mix... officials hope the
program will stretch across the state... and throughout the country. gimenez says: "firefighters
need companionship, something to de- stress them, these dogs need to be rescued, so we're
putting them in this program so they can become, you know, a part of our family."
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 10:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_150

21 year-old in young you has pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter can action with
the death of her boyfriend Alexander R tour luck who took his own life and Boston cbs's elaine
gay bar prosecutors say you was there all the parking garage roof with her to jump they say she
knew he was there for nearly an hour because she tracked his phone location but never alerted
anyone to intervene in his suicide he was currently out on bail and had to forfeit her U.S.
passport.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 23, 2019 • 12:10 PM

B_NOV_WASH_88

21 year-old in young you has pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter in connection with
the death of her boyfriend Alexander urged luck who took his own life and Boston cbs's elaine P
the couple exchanged more than 75000 text messages more than half a % from you
prosecutors say she constantly drove the talk of suicide repeatedly texting to to go died and
112

another text she wrote do everyone a favor and kill F'ing kill yourself her attorney released
texas earlier this week which they say shows you try to stop.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:55 PM

B_NOV_OREG_151

jeffrey epstein did not kill himself that doesn't mean that is on fire right now me and that and
not only that but it's going to be marketed to Christmas time saw it on the bottom of a beard
come aside printed on the bottom there beer can there's a number of people who live during
interviews on Fox news at dropped the phrase jeffrey if he didn't kill himself there are a lot of
clever ways they're asserting this in two issue called the mean magic the alga rhythms of of the
Internet and of this could be very powerful could backfire and we just heard last cartel said he
felt that sometimes he thinks that it's being overused too much the it's becoming a joke others
say no it's empowering people it's getting attention to this and people need to pay attention
this is the thing I find most interesting about it is that it's a bipartisan agreement that both the
left and right to believe that Jeffrey Olson edge every scene didn't kill himself I think that's why
this is so powerful go to Mike in Massachusetts I like your ground zero I like she might place
saying there's not a great time to be alive I mean you us happen once aren't people like you and
me lucky to be alive at the same time period Oh Yeah I think that this is the greatest time in
history things the greatest time to observe some crazy things going on history as long as no one
gets hurt I think it's an amazing time to be alive now they have sold you feel like the some of
the power has been restored to people so wrong the bloc's sanctions they are running scared as
we ever have I feel I feel like I'm you know one ticket could so from radio show but it's like a
criminal this time period that lebanon so special well you know I look at it in a unique way that's
why I do what I do otherwise be just like anybody else and I like to say it's a front row seat your
popcorn everything involved maybe you know something else where you're If you're listening
and you're realizing the world a lot more intricate an interesting and complex and just the black
and white non sense you get from the mainstream media that the fray more than aware of
right now for me it's more than just impeachment it's more than just you know crimes and
misdemeanors above the law and all the other sound bite it above the law there's a sound bite
that they're pushing no President above the law it's right up there with jeffrey of seating kill
himself they're looking for that powerful mean that powerful thing to put on the Internet that
everybody can adhere to an agreed to and they succeeded with this the right pitch in the 6th
seeded with this mean some bipartisan agreement with this maniac the that's why it's so
powerful.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:35 PM

B_NOV_OREG_152

stop talking about all that mobile sex trafficker who Committed Suicide intelligent most
powerful humans on the planet that files if you ask me listings clues suspicious if you're some
kind of crazy conspiracy theories that what you saw on the experts most stunned that someone
as high-profile as jeffrey many accusations and then was taken so much for no reason it's worth
though the brainiacs the that his last words were whichever to 5,0 0 0 a sign is seen in a photo
113

he is President stand it was a stretch I envisioned this look I agree this inspires he read a lot I
mean I know he got flagged Hirscher Earth a lot of suspicious of your global X way our kids bad
a woman was seriously jim real shame you kill yourself.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:31 AM

B_NOV_OREG_153

now to a former boston college student returning from south korea to face charges in her
boyfriend's death. in court, prosecutors read the text they claim led him to his take own life.
abc stephanie ramos has the story. >>>this morning the former boston college student charged
in the death of her boyfriend by suicide is out on bail after appearing in a boston court for the
first time friday. >> 21-year-old showed little emotion as prosecutors detailed some of the
alleged abusive text messages she sent then boyfriend. prosecutors say he took his own life
after 47 thousand text from her spanning two months. many urging him to go kill yourself and g
die. those messages read in court. >> leave me beep bleep alone. if you don't die i am going to
kill myself. >> among the thousands of replies he told her he was hearing voices. >> i want you
and the voices to stop. stop telling me how worthless and pathetic i am and how much i
deserve to die. >> also revealing a detail alleging she was on the roof the moment he jumped.
>> when the facts come out it will be clear these two young individuals were very needy,
emotionally, and involved in a relationship that became a toxic blend of fear, anger, need and
love. >> in a similar case, michelle carter convicted of involuntary manslaughter in
massachusetts after urging a young man to take his own life. she was just 17 when she text the
18-year-old to end his life. roy eventually filling up his truck with carbon monoxide in 2014. the
key evidence dozen of text messages showing carter pushing roy to suicide. when he hesitated
she insisted. the defense in this latest case releasing text messages from the moments of his
death where she allegedly tells him stop. i'm crying. please don't leave me like that. if you ever
loved me stop. >> both individuals really needed mental help at the time. this is more a mental
health issue than a criminal justice issue.
KOBI
Nov 23, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_154

'international survivors of suicide loss day'. people from across southern oregon came together
today for support and remembrance.. at an event at the smullin health center in medford. the
free event featured screenings of documentaries about healing from the loss of a loved one.
"when we have loved ones friends, family, that are struggling, whether they are known to be
depressed or whether we just have a sense or feeling that something is happening that we
reach out, that we take that step in compassion to ask." a panel of survivors... including nbc5s
own blakely mchugh... shared their own stories of loss... and how to cope and heal. if you have
lost someone close to you and would like to reach out to the organization... call if you or
someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call
the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also
text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.

114

KOHD (ABC)
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:06 AM

B_NOV_OREG_155

reporter: whit, good morning. inyoung you, prosecutors say, was the one person who knew of
her boyfriend's suicidal thoughts, encouraged them and d insteatiof getelng hp ptshe ke heit to
anrself d d urgem had hi e to lnd hisife. this morning, the former boston college studarent
chinged the death of oyer biefry nd b e suicidutis on o abailfter ap g pearinosin a burton cofot r
the first time friday. >> how do you plead? >> not guilty. >> reporte 2r: the1-year-old inyoung
you showed little emotion as prosecutors detailed some of the alleged abusive text messages,
she sent then boy friend alexander urtula. prosecutors say urtula took his own life after 47,000
texts from you spanning two months, many urging him to go kill yourself and go die. those
messages read in court. >> le eave mthe [ bleep ] alone. if you don't die, i am going to [ bleep ]
kill myself. >> reporter: among are tulle you are through's tdshousan of replies, he told her he
was hearing voices, i want you and the voices to stop. stop telling me how worthless and
pathetic i am and how much ide toserve die. >> reporterec: prosalutors so al revesting a unning
detail ngallegias she won even the roof the moment urtula jumped. >> the facts come out it will
be clear that these two young individuals were very needy emotionally and were involved in a
relationship thamet beca a to enxic bld of arfe, anger, need and love. >> reporter: in a similar
case michelle carter was convicted of involuntary manslaughter in taunton, massachusetts,
after urging a young man to take his life. she was just 17 when she texted 18-year-old conrad
roy to end his life. roy eventually filling up his truck with carbon monoxide in 2014. the key
evidence, dozens of text messages showing carter pushed roy to suicide and when he hesitated
she insisted. but the defense in this latest ca rselleasey emt ed texesmessag from tenhe
momorts befe his death where you ladily tells him, opst i,'m crying, please. don't leave e me
likthat. y ifou ever loved me, stop. >> both of these individuals nreallymeeeded ntal helhep at t
time. this is more of a mental health issue than it is a criminal justice issue. >> inyoung you has
posted bail and has turned in her passport. we do want to mention, though, if you are
struggling with thoughts of suicide or worried about a friend or loved one, help is available. call
the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
KNDO (NBC)
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:15 AM

B_NOV_WASH_89

fans are preparing to honor tyler hilinski... the w-s-u quarterback who took his own life last
year. at the university of south carolina... his brother and fans have already adopted their own
tradition.. raising awareness for mental health issues. back in pullman... it'll be senior night for
the cougs tonight...in what would have been hilinski's final home game at w-s-u... which is why
students are planning to honor him in their own way. hilinski's family launched the non- profit
project... hilinski's hope... to keep their son's memory alive... and fund efforts to destigmatize
mental illness. the cougs haven't said much about what they'll be doing today... but it sounds
like hilinski's parents will be walking out onto the field. and please remember -- there is help
available, anytime. if you or someone you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call
the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you
can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1. the wsu 24/7 crisis line is at 509-335-2159.
115

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 23, 2019 • 6:27 PM

B_NOV_WASH_90

ninan: finally tonight, an epic journey to solve an urgent problem facing veterans. here's errol
barnett. >> reporter: marathon enthusiasts brian tjersland and josh milich just finished the
longest run of their lives, completing 500 miles in 12 days, from massachusetts national
cemetery on cape cod to arlington national cemetery in virginia. >> we got 20 to go. >>
reporter: they ran more than 40 miles a day, braving rain, snow, and injury to raise awareness
of veteran suicides. we caught up with them in philadelphia. you say you wanted to do
something outrageous, something people would stop and see. >> yes. >> reporter: what has
the response been so far? >> it's been fantastic. it's exceeded anything we thought would
happen. >> reporter: tjersland and milich decided to use their passion for running to raise
money for mission 22, a nonprofit organization providing treatment to veterans suffering from
post-traumatic stress. and to a veteran sitting out there watching from home who have been
struggling, what would you say? >> it's okay to not be okay, and no one's going to judge you for
feeling the way that you do. >> reporter: 17 veterans die by suicide every day in the u.s., more
than 6,000 lives lost a year. former indiana army national guardsman brian westerfield, who
served in iraq, was almost one of them. what was it that made you contemplate suicide? why?
>> it's all of the failures all over again. i had stayed in that hole for so long that i-- i didn't see a
way out. >> reporter: westerfield helps mission 22 counsel other vets. he's also backing
tjersland and milich on their mission to spread hope. >> there are people out there that need to
hear this message, and it's worth every ounce of pain we've experienced these past weeks. >>
reporter: they gave their all to make sure no one runs alone.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_156

I'm about to tell the deepest darkest secret of my life and I don't know all if the audience is
going to understand I get up there talking too soon to say start speaking I love that disappears
and I feel this unexpected strength that comes through telling my story and after the show I
feel 10 feet tall and people are waiting to talk to me in the lobby and there are so many of us
that have a candy bar moment story from somebody eating all they killed themselves we have
eye candy bar moment months go by and videos go up from the shown he can start getting emails some now I became President with apparent suicide club around the world people are
sending letters they want to talk about how they feel like their appearance suicide was their
fault to one day get an email it's different it's from this young woman in canada down she has a
two year-old boy she tells me she's been suffering from this deep dark depression the kind that
makes you wonder about your place in this world know she doesn't want to leave her boring
but she just wants this paints a staffer in one day she's home alone she's so scared and while he
takes the snap she locked herself in the bathroom she pours enough pills in her hand to kill
herself she doesn't want to leave her boy she adores him but she suggests done and in the
middle of this mome She is crying so hard she can't read them and she's terrified and she
doesn't know what she's going to do and she can think about is my story she says she doesn't
want my story to be the same story I her son tells 20 years from now she's alive she's my friend
116

now we tell our stories because they save us telling mind kept a little boy from losing his mom
that to me and I found my voice again thank you for exams of those since she's an awardwinning blogger and mother of to see a picture of Alexandra and a picture of her Papi please
visit them off dot org Alexandra first told us about her story on our page wine maybe you have
a story I think we should hear it so go to the mosque dot org.
News Radio KEX
Nov 23, 2019 • 5:34 PM

B_NOV_OREG_157

very part of my body I eat my pain when they told me that I had did correct will paint and
pledged an opioid medication which had their job safely and without incident for meters when
the CDC guidelines came and one 16 world Cup of course that the doctor made some jokes
about my dad ball agreements they started slashing my putting immense and retaliation that in
16 with the C.D.C. guidelines came in and started slashing me more they can to avoid a year
and a half ago I was bedridden I got a call from her doctors who offered me a conference call
that awkward media of assisted suicide is my home be tiny Kite 0 doctors said I'll help you kill
herself absolutely not happen and there's no record of that my you know gave by the way hold
on stop right there so when I say a Dave you have any proof that ties are doctor offered to help
you kill yourself Yes I do and Archer threw home for I immediately called I immediately filed a
grievance with members services and they responded by don't worry it takes more than one
doctor to kill you tried your we have a protocol edge hold on hold on and that was a rare
grievance that they were us they actualy in writing said that to you you have approved Goodall
were you take more than one doctor you that's the way that you could be campaigning about
the problem and its chipset timeout and 28th and 29th of April of this year the CDC said longterm chronic pain sufferers like we should never been forged under each opioid guy black away
at that other matter that doesn't matter because the guidelines the cdc when you have a
doctor were determining your pain level how long you need to be Tokyo on opioids that
overrides everything a doctor's prescription and they are under a doctor the oxy would have
boxy when evy opioids in his control do not die of an overdose can be you're probably going to
be addicted but so what you have chronic pain and you're better off being addicted then you
are hurting the way you heard how about this and there's an attractive will pull you Metra cal
awarded to protect page suppers and pray and say all right I've had all like me in bed to cut off
completely my House this is we know that David open game of lot we could go and and I have
yet to get a response you know I got I got a 1000 pages of medical records every entry in my
medical while relates to chronic have to say no I'm not I'm not doing that I gave up a doctor can
determine that you are going to be on opioids for the rest of your life as long as it's a legitimate
medical decision that's made and no one is going to argue that someone who is kaine has be a
medical condition you do should not be on opioids based on a doctor's prescription the part I
find interesting is Kaiser has said Wow Oh don't worry about it you need a second doctor to say
that you know help you kill yourself have that kind of interesting because knowing Kaizer had
been a member of Congress are now deciding 5 years old I would think That bears no problem
with with getting done dozens of doctors that will say I'll help you kill yourself and don't worry
about it so you're not being able to get a second one Wow that really shocks me Dave I know of
this makes sense and I would love to see it doesn't I would love to see anything in writing that
117

you have said Kaiser has said and your argument or also ice said something so the doctor in
retaliation cut off my manager cut those half get any proof of had Yes after Rep Bob
agreements the very next month my pain meds were cut in half and engaged number 2013
made a complete and in January a 2014 they immediately column a pig mention Apple and
began slashing government slashing number that the C D think guys I don't know why you
would another doctor want to take that from a price or so be it is true because after reading my
medical files of their poison them they said had refused any treatment Besides the our
colleagues were as I had I had but I love it there but there is a point I you see a lot of other
medication you're probably refused and I don't even know where to go with the story because
it's so went right everything we know of course not the story somewhat outlandish Dr want to
kill you know when you need a second one and I make a complaint they cut me off even
alarming grotesque pain then I mean barry your tooth you know you're talking about here you
live in North korea and you said something about negative about kim Jong un that's what you're
saying been told he would be better off Chile God been trying to sue you can soon are you
surprised people surprise all time the only issue is trying to find you in front of an arbitrator and
by the way you're not from the court because you've agreed to arbitration by just joining Hi
shirt and guys so there you go you bring your case the arbitrator gentrifying number one
arbitrator the believes number two an arbitrator that will actually listen your case without
laughing in your face which I think is almost impossible and a question of your believability I
mean it's scary I mean sound completely crazy okay I hate to sound like you're a straight jacket
days but I gotta tell you your story certainly is I mean that is what I don't see my experience
with dessert is some we're a lot of people have sued Kaiser if you need a doctor actually
volunteer to kill you.
AM 860
Nov 23, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_158

former Boston college student accused of encouraging her boyfriend to kill himself appeared in
a Massachusetts court confronted with a treasure trove of abusive text messages at the center
of the case against 21 year-old ian young you are _forty_ _seven_ 1000 text messages she sent
into a monster her boyfriend 22 year-old Alexander urged Juba who leak from a parking garage
in boston just hours before graduation and you was on the roof for them at the time of his
death prosecutor Caitlin grasso do everyone a favor and tell yourself it's such you use the term
any Stephen Cam I've never seen such an unjust and callous behavior by district attorney the
prosecution contends physical verbal and psychological abuse led george to a suicide.
KTVZ (NBC)
Nov 23, 2019 • 6:39 AM

B_NOV_OREG_159

reporter: at the pss link suicide prevention center, the calls come in around the clock. handling
calls each day, to the suicide prevention lifeline. 1-800-273-talk. >> the suicide hot line saved
my life. >> reporter: one of the callers was joel daniels, who needed someone to talk to. >> i
cried for a good ten minutes straight. but to have my experience seen and to have space, space
held for it and shared in a way that held freeing, was really important for me at that specific
118

time. i don't know what i would have done. >> reporter: the need for a suicide hot line has
never been greater. suicide rates are at their highest since world war ii. 47,000 americans died
by suicide in 2017, a 33% increase since . 1999 now, the fcc wants to add a new hot line number
similar to 911. 988 would instantly connect callers to suicide prevention counselors. >> we hope
that people who are struggling with mental health issues and suicidal i'de alal thoughts, can
think of 988. >> when the rapper used the phone number a'ss its title, the number of calls
jumped 27%, further highlighting a mental health crisis. more than 20 vets die by suicide er evy,
single day. it's the second-leading cause of death on college campuses, with lgbtq risk at a
higher rate. for now, 1-800-273-talk, remains the best way the reach the suicide prevention
lifeline. >> our goal is to talk them through, de-escalate them. walk them through coping
resources that they may never have wered. not everyone knows how to breathe or ground
themselves. then, we talk about a long-term plan for the next day, the next few days. >>
reporter: if 988 becomes active, call centers think they will need to staff up. >> it's just about
getting that person off the ledge. >> reporter: as a three-digit phone number extends a new
lifeline for people in distress. for "today," tom costello, nbc news, oakton, virginia. >> there's
been a belief that suicides happen more often around the holidays. the cdc says that's not true.
they're lowest in december. but it's a year-round issue. >> that's an easy number to remember.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:59 AM

B_NOV_WASH_91

the former issaquah high school student accused of bullying her boyfriend to death. made her
first court appearance yesterday. >> do everyone a favor and go and kill yourself. >> prosecutor
shared shocking messages to her boyfriend, alexander, they say countless messages just like
the one you just heard pushed Boston college student to kill himself. he jumped off this parking
structure the day he was supposed to graduate from the university back in may. prosecutors
say he watched it all happen. she faces an involuntary manslaughter charge. something her
attorney says is quote, unjust and callous. >> to further punish the young woman who loved
this man would only compound the tragedy that already exists. >> there are two sides to this
story and says prosecutors are failing to highlight texts she sent trying to save his life. kiro 7 will
be keeping an eye on this case as it makes its way through court.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 23, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_160

some intimate free community will discuss the effect of suicide and how it can impact lives on a
personal level. is all in honor of international survivors or suicide. this tonight stop sorry at 6:00.
>> reporter: i am at the education center. people are talking about suicide. the medford
community met together at the education center on international survivor of suicide they. we
are talking about their own expenses with suicide which has impacted their lives forever.
volunteers with vendor spring, a support organization, help shed light on what depression and
suicide is. >> it is pretty complicated. i can look like it's nothing. it can look like anger. it can look
like just education. >> reporter: the public had a chance to share their own stories, ask
questions and receive advice from a supportive of like-minded individuals. >> the middle of
119

winter, she drove through the grand canyon of the east and western new york and jumped off
of the 300 foot cliff. >> the winter spring organizations as they can help with the grieving of a
lost love in. you can reach out to them. the panel discussion offered a way to share resources
and help each other at the time of need.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_161

today talking about his you know is bad decisions and hanging out palling around with good old
Jeffrey Epstein but you know what I about this whole jeffrey have seen didn't kill himself this all
mean it's going around doing this since this is sweet revenge this mean it's it's sweet revenge
it's another 9 11 is an inside job it is the 9 11 is an inside job of this hero of time or ending a
decade with a small phrases says all says we're being lied to that jeffrey epstein didn't kill
himself like a billboard for disillusionment mistrust everywhere you look jeffrey epstein didn't
kill himself that the phrase has been slapped on beer cans okay there's selling it as Christmas at
the site with Christmas tree ornament there's a new Jeffery have seen didn't kill himself on a
shelf wealth seriously Elf on a shelf jeffrey if he didn't kill himself shelf self but sure you can buy
for Christmas so they're turning into Christmas merchandise you can get under your tree you
know I got to do is print the day and it's right there and steen didn't kill himself for Christmas
some beer cans you about the beer can what company was put on the bottom there can jeffrey
have seen incomes over as singing himself it's it's been put on as non sequitur replies on the
cable news interviews some guy was talking about the arms an interview with Fox also he's
bored out and stinging kill himself I stand but I would know their prey go to commercial I mean
football games signs being held up as seen in kill himself San Francisco bar bathroom walls and
ceiling Jones cell phone numbers of hookers I hated all what I call was to go sorrow there is
anger you See what he did he actually did tweet with headlines that every first letter very
headlines about esteem didn't kill himself so these guys are desperate to get this mean I it's
been showing up on dating apps it is a bipartisan conspiracy theory everyone both left and right
agree on one thing that both parties could agree on Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself isn't that
interesting we can agree on that little sentence main you find weird we can agree on watergate
watergate sorry we can't create an impeachment we are in the middle of the framing more we
can see how the freight war this is dividing us more but there's one zero or visit I weren't or
depending on how you do it Jeffrey s scene didn't kill himself or ESI didn't kill himself which is
forwards so I mean that phrase alone is the bipartisan up the doors to the political system
anything you agree this is a phenomenon that said but that you know for the first time we all
agree on one thing or the both parties and alabama they really were on 9 11 was an inside job
there was like Oh my God we're completely shocked to say this but everybody can agree that
there's something fishy about jeffrey have seen I said that but back when jeff we have seen that
he made everybody conspiracy thirst when he died everybody I had no idea was going to be
this the catch phrase why up on the Internet everywhere and it's happening the meanest mean
magic just like Momo or something else it's it's I mean that's send the message nice and clean
and everybody from both parties can agree even in the midst of the division impeachment
jeffrey abstain didn't kill himself.

120

FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:23 PM

B_NOV_OREG_162

one the conspiracy he of jeffery of that steam then and what I mean but this is that you know
it's good they got to take a break from all other crap jeffrey of steam out this whole thing
jeffery have he didn't kill himself is all over the Internet right now I and what I hear I hear a
number of things it is like taking a small conspiracy or conspiracy theory put it in like one
sentence and setting off on the Internet see anybody pays attention I give you another into like
9 11 was an inside job we know that one 9 11 was an inside job or 9 11 truth now all of that on
and I remember back when those this short time I have these T-shirts instead of saying I will
The truth now I K juxtapose it had say 9 11 truth one you get it you get that I 9 11 truth one
meaning the whole idea of 9 11 truth is winning you no idea it was winning so bad now it's like
Momo shirts and sell that well I got the joke as is stop making T-shirts by own ideas of them no
grounds are low was one thing but site but it we have a conspiracy theory judge Jeffrey s
sweetheart deal given an open door 13 months despite evidence of using trafficking girls then
of course the machinations of the so-called the state the CIA fomenting a cruise around the
world it's just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to L pop conspiracy that earlier with ron in
the industry India and the officers about pop conspiracy pop conspiracy theory we're told in the
free more we're told in the frame Nene war but I love that this exists that this conspiracy stuff
exists except in the minds of crazy he backward and working people it's just it's the whole thing
in these guys are not right there tinfoil hat wearing cranks yet stay it's continues suspended
some conspiracy theories in order to benefit their own various agendas understand it's okay
when they spent a conspiracy to quickly right it's okay.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:23 PM

B_NOV_OREG_163

conspiracy theorists are uncovering real conspiracy and rebuilt wrote to the conspiracy behind
many of the turning points in history mean and this whole thing about Jeffrey Epstein Didn't kill
himself this sweet revenge this mean it's like a billboard for just those 4 delusional Hey Jeffrey
does seem counsell Yes every opinion kill himself I'm angry at us you know Jeffrey have seen
didn't kill himself this is basically a long way to say I would like to you've been lied to what's
why the hell up athlete me needs I the life you've been lied to would you agree that we've been
lied to about Jeffrey Epstein these when he died everybody him a conspiracy theorist.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 23, 2019 • 7:15 PM

B_NOV_WASH_92

all rests in the death of sex offender Jeffrey Epstein in prison according to a federal indictment
Correctional officer told no well large more than 75 inmate count the day Jeffrey Epstein died
but evidence allegedly shows she and fellow officer Michael Thomas did not perform any of
their required Browns Thomas's attorney blames systematic failures in the Bureau of prisons
we believe that one all the evidence is presented about how the system was rant maybe you
have a different appreciation for what was going on and steve was found unresponsive in his
121

cell with a noose around his neck around 6 30 a.m. on August 10th he attempted suicide just
weeks earlier we take every inmates life very serious in your presence on Capitol Hill Tuesday
senators grilled the Bureau of prisons director about the failure to protect testy the fbi is
involved and they are looking criminal enterprise surveillance video allegedly shows that aside
from know well thomas and two other officers at the facility no one entered the section were
Epstein was held during that shift prosecutors say in the hours before Epstein's body was
discovered the officers were seen sitting in a common area approximately 15 feet from his cell
the indictment claims they spend that time surfing the Internet and for about two hours both
appeared to have been asleep CBS news legal analyst Rikki Klieman that purpose of those tapes
is to put an end to conspiracy theories and show that no one else had access to jeffrey epstein
at the time of his death both guards around 100000 $ bond Thomas's attorney says they are
looking forward to his day in court and hopeful for a positive resolution and expected back in
court next Monday
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 23, 2019 • 8:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_164

On the things are happening with they ramped up this whole Jeffrey s and did not kill himself
think Prince Andrew came forward now they could either be a result of this sort could be just
that and thought the timing was perfect for this they do a lot of things about this about this
mean generation or about means and mean magic in general that is certainly a lot of people are
not aware of the it's very powerful magic it's causal engine using the Internet as a cause the
engine to bring about change using algorithms and means and and and doing that getting the
attention the people when they wouldn't be attention given otherwise and so seeing something
for me it is spilling over into the mainstream with all these people just inserted light right left
their conversations and so it's a very complex issue and some bad things really discussion I think
there will be many people talk about this very important stuff that I know that other
mainstream talk show host Mark bring this stuff up it may have affected but it does affect
because what it's doing is this sending ripple through those guys that ripple through the group
think and if either can turn into this horrible thing where there is thinking this is some sort of
you know pathological conspiracy theory or could do a lot good because people would say well
Yeah I believe he didn't kill himself as a matter of whether you believe he killed himself not
House serious you take this story whether it's the other night I had a guy called as people don't
care that's why getting we talk about have seen you know people and the longer that we do
care won't be carried off you know have a comment about this jeffrey have seen in don't know
you care enough to understand the meaning as you care enough to understand that maybe this
mean is being used to get the attention of those who would normally have the attention of this
that is small line like a wall didn't act alone you know 9 11 was an inside job jeffrey have seen
didn't kill himself this is this is classic conspiracy theory but don’t mean well it's me magic it's
amazing how this happens.

122

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 24, 2019 • 1:35 PM

B_NOV_WASH_93

I don't know all if the audience is going to understand I get up there talking too soon to say
start speaking of that disappears and I feel this unexpected strength that comes through telling
my story and after the show I feel 10 feet tall and people are waiting to talk to me in the lobby
and there are so many of us that have a candy bar moment story from somebody eating all that
kills himself we have a candy bar moment months go by and videos often shown he can start
getting e-mails some now I became President the period suicide club and around the world
people are sending letters they want to talk about how they feel like their appearance to the
side was their fault one day get an e-mail and it's different it's from this young woman in
canada she has a two year-old boy she tells me she's been suffering from this deep dark
depression that kind it makes you wonder about your place in this world know she doesn't
want to leave her boy but she just wants this paints a staffer in one day she's home alone she's
so scared and while he takes the snap she locked herself in the bathroom she pours enough
pills in her hand to kill herself she doesn't want to leave her going she adores him but she
suggests done and in the middle of this moment she is crying so hard she camp 3 of them and
she's terrified and she doesn't know what she's going to do and I she can think of is my story
she says she doesn't want my story to be the same story her son tells 20 years from now she's
alive she's my friend no we tell our stories because they save us telling mind kept a little boy
from losing his mom that day and I found my voice again.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 24, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_NOV_WASH_94

South Korean artist who horror has been found dead in her home at the age of 28 the cause of
death is still under investigation she was hospitalized in may after allegedly trying to take her
own life another member of the K pop bands to leave was found dead in a suspected suicide
just over a month ago she grew Hara were extremely close according to the world health
organization's South Korea has one of the highest suicide rates in the world.
AM 860
Nov 24, 2019 • 4:55 PM

B_NOV_OREG_165

one of the reasons that it's so important to get help to get a diagnosis is the high rate of suicide
especially for her for bipolar disorder and it's irrational but we suffer suicidal ideation out at an
alarming rate and and that's why you need to help if ifi something that the you obsess about if
you have thoughts of suicide call the suicide hotline by the way and that number I've got it right
here 80 is one 802 to 7.8 to 5 500 to 7.8 to 5 5 and they will help you they will talk with you he's
not you it is your mind and your biochemistry is the way that you were wired he's tricking you
into thinking that it's time to end her life that's not real and they can help you get through that
and EU it will be up to you after the top of the hour the rise of question okay well there we go
hour two of our bipolar disorder show.

123

FM News 101 KXL
Nov 24, 2019 • 8:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_166

David Brent is a psychiatrist at the University of Pittsburgh medical center where he runs a clinic
for suicidal adolescents he happened to attend talk Marcel just was giving but his autism
findings and immediately wondered about his own patients so I went up to him afterwards I
said would you be interested in talking about maybe doing a study on suicide you hear about
cases of suicide where the person had been depressed but you also hear of situations where
people say nothing of suicide is a great mystery because the person who knows the most about
why it happened the loop they're to talk with you try to reconstruct what happened but nobody
has a window into people's skin no Interior faults nobody that is except someone with a mind
reading device doctor Is just and branch began planning a pilot study to see if the scanner might
reveal what is the alternative the thoughts of people contemplating suicide they reached out to
matt knock a Harvard professor who studied how difficult it is for doctors and emergency
rooms 10 know which patients are safe to send home is this the first time anybody's looked
inside the brain to see about suicidal thoughts Yes it is the first guy I've ever heard of worse
someone's looking to bring in someone who's so-so was actively thinking about death a suicide
you don't see life for something that's going to be effects the only way to get out of it is to kill
yourself Dan toss ski a former patient Dr. Brandt's clinic volunteered to participate in the study
to help scientists better understand suicidal thinking do you think in terms of the word pain
pain is in a break with me or you have a migraine and spit it hurts so bad you can see this being
depressed and suicidal there's just much greater much greater what couldn't pay to be in the
study subjects had to have suicidal thoughts within the prior month Bay and control subjects
were asked to think about words like funeral and death as well as positive words including
praise good and carefree and both categories the Suisse sign no group differed from controls
this is a group that's thinking about suicide and with the autism study the key differences
turned out to be in those cells related areas syria they lit up the right rear ahead among suicidal
subjects when I thought about death related words I give you the word funeral you know what
you think about maybe your grandmother's funeral or something like that I a source so
personal is much more likely to say my funeral book for positive words the findings were
exactly the opposite when I'm not suicidal controls thought about the word carefree they
thought about something that involved themselves suicide subjects significantly less sound did
you ever imagine that you could ask people to think about the word carefree and you'd be able
to tell if someone was having suicidal thoughts it's no breakthrough idea it's a lot of fun of your
basic scientists discover how things work but it becomes there's an extra level of gratification
when you learned that it's possibly help pull in useful this work is still in its infancy doctors just
brand and knock are doing a larger and I age funded study to collect more data and while from
now it's too costly and cumbersome to put people into an mri scanners to see if it's safe to
released from the hospital if they could come up with an easier way to do this.

124

KHQ (NBC)
Nov 24, 2019 • 7:05 AM

B_NOV_WASH_95

it's been nearly two years since the death of wsu's quarterback, tyler hilinkski... so tyler's
teammates had something special planned for his family, on what would've been tyler's final
season... stephanie stevenson has the story tyler hilinski ..."number 3". this is a jersey that was
framed too soon gifted to a family that wasn't ready to say good-bye... and teammates, that are
keeping his memory alive senior night at wsu was a bittersweet moment for the hilinski's... as
the family said they miss their boy, but are honored to still be a part of cougar football in
january of 2018... tyler died by suicide... but an autopsy later revealed he had chronic traumatic
encephalopathy... a brain injury that is caused from excessive hits to the head... that can cause
depression cougar football fans surrounded the family under the bright lights... with roses for
tyler's mother, father, and aunt fans in the crowd offered their support too... waving number
3's flag... and keeping tyler's spirit alive on campus 35:24 "i think it means so much to the
campus, and the community here. tyler meant so much to me my time here, he's a comeback
kid, and always will be." - jefferson douglas a foundation was created in tyler's honor called
"hilinski's hope"... advocating to destigmatize mental illness surrounding student athletes
nearly half a million dollars has been donated to the non-profit i'm ss .. khq thank you
stephanie... if you or anyone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... please reach out
for help. you can contact the national suicide prevention hotline at 1-800-273-8255 at any hour
of the day for free and confidential support.
AM 860
Nov 24, 2019 • 5:35 PM

B_NOV_OREG_167

we are just in narrow starting to its being to talk openly about mental health and mental health
issues and the more that I can talk openly without any state mom my own and say this is what
it is this is how I suffer this is how I got help this is a life I'm leading now it doesn't mean it's
always perfect but there's hope that maybe I can help one person maybe one person out there
picks up the phone and calls a therapist or asks a friend or family member is they know how to
get some help or worse case they call the National suicide Prevention hotline it saves her life
and I don't mean that from arrogance standpoint I mean that from the more of us that live with
mental illness that com read it that tried to have normal or as normal as possible productive
lives that have loved ones in the same hall hopes and aspirations is everybody else if we can
show that you can lead a good life with a chronic mental illness and maybe it gives hope to
those that are struggling right now other listen to my voice and I wish somebody had done that
for me 10 years ago 15 years ago 20 years ago I wish we had been at a point in a society where
we could talk as openly about it we did and I stand behind my mother's manic depressive the
stigma that my family attached to it Is what kept them from telling me the she had which
meant I didn't know there was a chance I had it that's wrong and that was not prevented you
from getting to hope you need exact soon and that was out of fear and ignorance and stigma so
the more we can break that down the more people can get help the vote the better their lives
can become the better that everybody's life can become but we have to start looking at it as as
simply as we do our physical health Yes and we have to seek the same kind of treatment we
125

would do artists are physically we go to the dentist every year we go to the doctor every year to
get a checkup why are we going to a therapist every just to get that check-up to get that checkin and your mental health is just as important as your physical in some cases when I say it's
more important Yeah because if you don't have the faculty to take care of yourself bad things
happen and you start trying to self-diagnose and worst case you start self-medicating and that's
where drug addiction and alcoholism and sex addiction all of these things you're trying to fill
this void which can understand his role with you because you haven't got a proper help you
need to address whatever it is mentally emotionally you're dealing with and none of that is
global there's nothing wrong about that you're not week forgetting help your strong because it
means you want the tools to fix yourself to go have a good long productive and happy life but
his with those numbers against him the first thing that that that I do I do want to say is if you
are struggling asked somebody for help and he's if any of what you heard today seems familiar
in you or a loved one I talked to Dr talk to therapist reach out to nail me which is the national
Association of mental illness you can find them online you can reach out to the depression and
bipolar disorder alliance again you can find them online you we talked 0 primary care physicians
they will be able to refer you to people.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 24, 2019 • 6:25 AM

B_NOV_WASH_96

a lot of people tried to save up to retire early but a new study shows that early retirement can
speed up cognitive decline the study from Binghamton University State University of New York
from the same thing both United States and China among people over age 45 early retirement
led to a decline in cognitive performance especially in delayed recall and especially in women
researchers say the results appear to bear out the old adage about the brain use it or lose it if
your skin is chronically itchy you're much more likely to be depressed even suicidal study in the
Journal of investigative dermatology shows that people with conditions such as ex month a
topic dermatitis answer biases are often made miserable by ditching those with which were
more than twice as likely to be depressed and nearly twice as likely to have Suicidal thoughts as
control subjects without those conditions.
AM 860
Nov 24, 2019 • 5:20 PM

B_NOV_OREG_168

Really close and in my own life and I chose not to and bit there are millions of people around
the world it's a goes way beyond just bipolar disorder it's it's it's more suicide Prevention and
and and survive being your own attempt but there there was a project called for the semi Colon
project and it was put together by beautiful person her name was amy she was for Wisconsin
and she suffered demons I mean she suffered I aviation that I it was it was a tremendous
amount he was a daily fight for her but she wanted to help others and and herself and and she
put together this this this project called project some might call it basically means that your
story isn't over yet the semi Colon is used wooden author writes sentence but doesn't want to
hit and dissent it's and continues with the sentence that's how the food the of the piece of
grammar is used trade and so she's she looked shattered as for people who fight I aviation for
126

people who survived a suicide attempt for people who who may have lost people two suicide
the semi Colon is there is a representation that your story is not over yet you're continuing
story and a very powerful totem for me it's very powerfull reminder that's there that's there
every day and again there are millions of people that that either have a tattoo of a semi colon
or they were some calling jewelry or but Buddy days it's it's really subtle way that says did this
at some point suicide as impact impact your life no San Oddly Aimee succumbed to ek two
years ago and then we all lost of or Re you leave your friend the project continues them so if
you want to look up its projects my Colon and and they still do amazing work for suicide
Prevention and untrained room to rid the world of mental health stigma because stigma kills if
you don't talk about it and we can address it and we can address that we can't fix it make
people better and healthier so so that's why I wear my semi Colon is is I came that close but my
story isn't over yet so that's that's why I have some call a tattoo it's interesting I didn't know
that so you for that they want to do you finded do you find or let me rephrase that have you
ever been able to find ways to climb out of your depression or ear you're mania Y yourself I U
get a ee like heavy ever wrecking now okay I'm getting into a bad play nice Yeah he said since
my diagnosis Yes Yes a mom a part of it is is going back to your social hygiene and and really
looking at and my sleeping right my exercise in well might even basic right getting back to just
just getting into a social rhythm another one is like with when it comes to depression that there
comes a point with my depression get Fed up with it I know it sounds silly but but those of you
who suffer depression I suffer you'll get this they're just comes a day where you go I am tired of
this and you start to force yourself to do things that no one depressed people do just to get in
the habit it's like walking out in quicksand slowly every step maybe it helps you climb out of
that hole the other thing too is don't feed it because for me and now top I would team better at
my depression again because I recognized it since I was young I am with my main my
depression I tend to recognize and understand that it's coming I was going to be my next
question because when you came in monday and said I'm in a low point I'm an 8 8 triggered to
me is like Whoa okay so he can recognize Yeah the depression but not the mania no no I again
because probably I've I've lived with I've understood my depression 20 years longer then have
the meaning and the meaning of feels good a the first part of a media hype Romania which is
most of of what I deal with I the media for the most part is awesome he really is I mean look if
you look at the research those of us that live with bipolar disorder one one of the biggest risks
once you're diagnosed is going off your medication because bad things can happen not only
because you should stay medicated but because a lot of people don't step themselves down
they just quit cold Turkey it's like Ms. not taking my meds anymore and it can pay its them until
I hear right.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 24, 2019 • 8:35 AM

B_NOV_WASH_97

you mentioned A.I. program for high school students can you elaborate on that Yeah so we
started a program about two years ago the seat which we operate for two years now and we
got fired we went to a strategic planning process we identified that we weren't we have an
opportunity to do a better job of serving teenagers special leave were concerned about these
the good I guess so declining mental health of art our middle school teenage population to be
127

honest with you the the number of trouble old middle school high school students in Walker
County has been increasing suicide rates are increasing there was a survey done by health
Department server no middle schooler in Walker County parent 25% of all middle school
students kind of thought about a means for if they were to commit suicide how they would do
it that's scary that's a scary statistic and so we get found the best program that we saw in the
kind treat floor to help build stronger used in middle school and high school was a program of
long Beach wine CIA along the California as called youth Institute and the program that takes
kids that are entering high school 9th grade once a school for the deaf fired to school
counselors have identified these kids might be at risk in the first year but dropping out of it
unless we give them a support and we get them in this program there with this all summer long
8 5 Monday through Friday.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 24, 2019 • 8:55 AM

B_NOV_OREG_169

portland police help a man in crisis. this happened just before 5:00 this morning. officers were
called to an apartment building on north williams near thompson for reports of a suicidal man
with a knife. a team of crisis negotiators got that man to surrender. he was taken to the
hospital and will not be charged with a crime. if you or somebody you know is having a mental
health crisis,-you can always call the national lifeline at the number on your screen, it's 1-800273-talk.
88.5 KNKX
Nov 25, 2019 • 3:03 PM

B_NOV_WASH_98

A judge set an April trial date for to jail guards accused of failing to make required checks on
financier Jeffrey Epstein the night he died and falsified records to cover up U.S. District court
judge says the trial of the guards to begin April 20th they plead not guilty the line on prison logs
make it seem as though they had made their required checks that he was found hanged in his
jail cell new York city's medical examiner ruled the death a suicide that he was awaiting trial on
charges he sexually abused teenage girls in his manhattan mansion.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 25, 2019 • 8:05 AM

B_NOV_WASH_99

the community is reaching out to a Linden family that suffered the loss of a father and now
young son these friends and family set up a GoFundMe page for the cohen family after Kurt
Cobain committed suicide in 2018 he suffered from PTSD after being deployed in Iraq as a
number of the army National guard his wife Renate was left to raise their 4 sons on her own
one of the boys is autistic and she also suffers from serious health issues last ride their last
Thursday their youngest son died suddenly at age 14 I'm going to the cones families GoFundMe
page to help with funeral and family expenses.

128

AM 860
Nov 25, 2019 • 8:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_170

great story I absolutely love it and Let's hope he doesn't know anything about you know the
clintons Prince Andrew anything to do with jeffrey epstein because he could be suicidal and
hobby right Uh-huh just saying it is very interesting what's going on now jeffrey epstein because
I really didn't even the feds now very concerned about the conspiracy theories that are out
there but you'd be an idiot not to have a conspiracy theory right it be an idiot because he is a
guy with the most a high profile prisoner anywhere in the United States anywhere in the
country he's the guy he's the most high-profile prisoner anywhere in the country they want us
to believe a whole bunch of stuff they want to believe they just came off suicide watch because
he tried to kill himself two weeks before they want us to believe that they removed his cellmate
just as a matter of regular activity they want stability you've got the gods that was supposed to
check on him every 30 minutes some hour of from a slate playing video games whatever they
say it is by the way the jobs are going to be scapegoated hit looks very clear and many they
then what you believe that me was of corn maize maze because in that particular cell if you
want to hang yourself the only way you can do it is only in the youth and they then I want you
to believe backed video surveillance somehow around to camera is not working and then for
me the piece still on his stumps the final debate it is wasn't the new York Post that was the new
York Post they grabbed a picture of the dead Jeffrey Epstein being wheeled into the hospital we
got an old picture of pot of his face So paid did in fact kill himself this other stuff Israeli mom
could no I know what's going on man how is that even the flags very concerned that we will
have these conspiracy theorists can close we hav fun an existing didn't kill himself means over
of replace the sole woman appointed the day on Twitter that was great so perhaps they didn't
kill himself stuffed his is amusing but the bottom line is people simply are not buying into a
suicide the images not it but Britain's Prince Britain's Prince Andrew that's complicated the that
all full interview we need a high-profile Post and that is going to run come away from public life
by spending less time with his family we know bill clinton was on his plane a bunch of times
there's a picture of him with President Trump but even the left not trying to push Trump
connection but not trying to push the industries connection feeding is revocable some people
don't even think he's dead by a White check and he is secure era alleging procure also eyeing
his leading maxwell this is also very interesting to me because she is the daughter of somebody
who bubba maxwell maxwell multi-million and newspaper of know was at the center of a
controversy whence not only he apparently fell off his luxury yacht the time nobody believes
that you so around for a they were too high profile sudden unexpected deaths but nobody
believed it it's that tot is not getting much play Yeah right now review said Wes they will review
said the bottom line was they win this place you've seen Epstein didn't kill himself 9 for a long
time 9.1 72 47 apparently showed up on the screen San Diego and Apple you know that Wow
cause get ready started getting in popularity after a Navy seal was on Fox news about
something tiny different many said he wanted to do a PSA about the dogs they use and I just
blurted out in a live interview and sting didn't kill himself acknowledged go to Wolf is the judge
We'll see what happens I and innate 9 for one pags 8.8 9 full ones 7 two for a 7 com really very
interested in and when this goes but 8 talk to believe it is going to go anywhere I love madden
they commit suicide to announce what the deal talk she says right he Committed Suicide killed
129

himself so unless you see him on a Beach some path that he's not in fact dead bases that's
going to be the end and the other guy that maybe a lot of noise but the end Dianna someone
comes up with him alive he is going to be dead the story's going to go away but I guess it
brought some amusement having set a broad Museum and ominously really really serious story
and that's being lost because of the festival 5 cities right now course today and is being lost so
the victims of this real monster because he was among a step they're really not getting much in
the way of Justice right now so be the pure your aura goose laying Maxwell she apparently is
coming out of hiding and it got sold to the fbi that's going to be very interesting because unless
she has a name to trade she could find herself in an old full lot of trouble.
Portland's CW
Nov 25, 2019 • 2:42 PM

B_NOV_OREG_171

mel: welcome back. i'm here with tv host montel williams and we are shining a light on mental
health and ptsd. josh joined the navy when he was 23 years old. what he saw during his first six
months of service still affects them 20 years later. >> i joined the navy when i was 18. by 19 i
was in the persian gulf. we were deployed over six months. while i was on the carrier, my
lieutenant hung himself. i discovered his body and cut it down. i carry a lot of guilt with me. that
day 25 years ago still haunts me because i was not able to help him. i was unable to be there for
a friend. i think to myself, is there something i could have done for different outcome. i've been
working on a lot of issues from my time in the service, but i still do not have great relationships
with the people i left behind. how do we get those relationships back? mel: we just learned that
when you were 19, you found your lieutenant who had hung himself, and i understand that you
blame yourself in some way. >> i do. he was my friend, you know? new guy on the ship, the
lieutenant. we carry that guilt, maybe maybe something that i did could have pushed him over
the edge. mel: can you describe -- i know you started to have flashbacks. what were some of
the flashbacks about? >> trying to run through the ship, trying to stop my lieutenant, trying to
maybe find him to talk him down. mel: even 20 years later, the emotion is right there. so you
did get help, and you started seeking pretty regular therapy, correct? >> that's correct. i saw my
doctor once a week for eight months, and we were making very good progress. she taught me
breathing techniques, grounding skills. we were making good progress. montel: then what
happened? something tragic happened. >> unfortunately, she was working with a place in
California where they were helping transition veterans coming back from iraq and afghanistan
back into the world. one of the veterans got angry and came back and shot several of the
doctors, and unfortunately, she was one of them. mel: ah. >> she was pregnant, seven months
at the time. she was my rock. she was the person that i could go to. mel: what was her name?
>> Jennifer Gonzalez. mel: jennifer. montel: are you seeing someone now? >> i am. mel: how
have these two tragedies -- how are they impacting you in your present day-to-day life? >>
every day, they impact me. i volunteer at a hospital in northern California, and that's how i get
to give a little bit to someone else. [applause] mel: joe, who we just talked to, also said how
sometimes he wonders why he was the one who got to come home. given that both of the
tragedies you faced, you feel this guilt around -- is this survival guilt, something veterans feel at
all times? montel: almost every single one of us feels that. there's got to be something in you
that recognizes you're not alone. there's not a human being who is not a human who would not
130

feel the way you do. [applause] mel: one of the things i really want to help you with is one of
the regrets you have. i know you wish you had gotten help sooner, and i think looking at the
past, that is only going to fill you with regret. i want to look ahead and figure out for the
opportunity is because i know one of the things you are sad about is how this has all impacted
your relationships.
KTVL (CBS)
Nov 25, 2019 • 6:32 AM

B_NOV_OREG_172

Some of the medford community met at asante's educational room to discuss the effects of
suicide and how it has impacted lives. it is an owner of international survivors of suicide lost
day. >> reporter: the medford community met at asante's small and health education center on
international survivors of suicide lost day. the keynote speaker and a professional grief
counselor spoke with the panel and the public about their own expenses with suicide, which
have impacted the lives forever. volunteers with winter spring, a support organization, helped
shed light on what depression and suicide is and how to address a situation they can be hard to
understand. >> it is pretty complicated. they can look like nothing where somebody does not
show much. it can look like anger, that was true of my husband's case. it can look like just
agitation. >> reporter: she remembers her discussions with their loved ones after losing a family
member to suicide and living with the threat of a loss to suicide. >> there is help you can have
for this. you don't have to suffer this. that is what his role was, to suffer it. >> reporter: the
public had a chance to share their own stories, ask questions and receive advice from a
supportive group of like-minded individuals. another guest speaker remembers is loving and
supportive parents and the day his mother claimed her own life over 20 years ago. >> it was in
the middle of winter and she drove to the grand canyon of the east in western new york. and
jumped off of a 300 foot cliff. >> reporter: the winter spring organization said they can help if
you are grieving from the loss of a loved one. you can reach out to them at 541552 at 54155206
at 541-552- 0620.
AM 860
Nov 25, 2019 • 8:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_173

maybe it's not but anywhere and been skeptical of the label the conspiracy theorist were a
more why not allow a YouTube I felt confident the story we have been given its fall but I will be
performing half of these dots without any protection that will put our protection when I get to
what the actual numbers are required you actually hang yourself what's the know jeff reacting
could strangle himself we are saying and this idea he fractured 3 norm we calculated before
that is required in the end that fell because keep in mind team you heard and felt breaking free
credit report a young cop bad and also one of 8 by 8 film keep in mind too that the the tour
kind of course they share portion torque depending on the angle it's not like he can drop down
not far because of his feet were completely up against the bad he's pushing again the bat Nico
can go beyond doubt about that or not I think it's a bad and art which would support despite
the spate of a rape of our we've been building and conducting nuclear experience I don't want
the jeffrey if he didn't kill himself but I'm more convinced than ever that it's a interesting I me I
131

think we're in the same place in a state that like I keep looking at this story and thinking when I
think logically common sense wise over I keep coming back to the fact that effort that he didn't
kill himself from but on the other hand it's like what is not really evidence like be a bit of a
move Hey there's nothing concrete now you make creates a concrete evidence here tonight but
I think the medical examiner saying that this is this is possible this is what happened there are
explanations and we have maybe the big the guards may not have been checking anybody they
may just be completely lazy guards realized they could slip through the ship corner they felt like
nothing was going to happen there are other competing it's when I I'm I'm sorry but like your
love you guys I'm one we got that low the tour you're kind of piled in the world with the most in
doubt intimate relations of the most powerful people me I find it hard to believe but no check
and by the way we'll have a live Tiger with even read it my youngest producer here he will be
forced to create the row of bed sheets About any sharp utilities or even at his locker room
paying to time rope bed he could adequately hangs and get my it got so whipped out her view
that but my God the opaque between 10 and had to happen our if it takes 5 minutes but unless
the camera Trump empire from noticing I he was sorry I think they basically heard to hold her
own and higher together a rope from a bedsheet thinking but I expect that the were conducting
right we conducted a pre expenditure getting cable the party or that the of direct force on that
trade him highlight and every is it possible that in the real world scenario for example are the
highly bones from the people focused on could be less relevant because the highlight of the
evening as bone to break of the 3 fractures Jeffrey Epstein for state takes 30 Borschberg right
during while back in White script where they take from someone Hi I don't know what his dad
topic that accretion by script I host a show with the amount of force they claim crushed Ohio
would actually get it and do that tonight show and we heard about it would ban erred on the
side of if they're not need because you're so that's not true no imminent.
News Radio KEX
Nov 25, 2019 • 8:45 PM

B_NOV_OREG_174

decorated journalist in the mainstream who covered the story for multiple years also says on
this tape she's 100% convinced that jeffrey epstein did not kill himself and that is on the tape I
have not heard anyone investigate that you know you you say that people but you know their
conspiracy theorist they believe this me is amy robot a conspiracy theorist this is like visiting
this feels I think the American people not like crazy conspiracy theory but it's something that
actually happened and is being hidden from us know I think that we may hear something of an
undeniable not conspiracy theories jeffrey after Iran had a filing with the most powerful people
in the world yet in iowa the dedicated to it good morning it's well over yet we don't judge
people can look at these pictures of giant orgy hours and room with pillows and crucifixes them
and why such perspective and and no bad By the way just Pelosi showers that that's who you
are weird Yeah to do was put on suicide watch at one point % remember report permit keen
keen Hunter don't find healing itself with a rope bed sheet but he kind of so with no pool but no
guard noted anything of the kind of injury that occurred warning it might be from better.

132

News Radio KEX
Nov 25, 2019 • 6:55 AM

B_NOV_OREG_175

O speaking Sarah live did you see the Pete Davidson is dating now my wife didn't think this was
cool all Pete Davidson of Saturday night live he's the guy that's got mental illness problems and
has threatened to kill himself on Twitter number times and was engaged to argue on Agron day
she broke it off that's when he threatened to kill himself on Twitter and but now he's got a new
girlfriend just turned 18 year-old swimsuit model whatever that means the modern world and
got her parents can't be pleased that she's she's hanging out with him in his is a train wreck of a
life and they're on the Beach and he's drinking Heineken which is always good for somebody
has been in and out of rehab for booze alcohol from last couple years so on the Beach drinking
with his 18 year-old girlfriend hearing reports that cindy crawford's daughter is that we know
what looks exactly like here Wow you would think cindy crawford can keep her daughter away
from Pete Davidson and women once kids 18 into whatever they want
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 25, 2019 • 8:35 AM

B_NOV_WASH_100

we all know that there is a mental health crisis among law enforcement officers in the U.S. and
now a local police group is hoping that a new license plate can raise some money and kyrie had
scott has been following this for day more than 200 law enforcement officers in the U.S. have
taken their lives so far in 2019 according to the latest numbers it's prompted concern at the
Washington state Fraternal order of police seem theme Unfortunately that steady increase for
law enforcement mental health issues related to PTSD and the trauma Associated with the
profession as well than ever increased theme wheat death by suicide with law enforcement
that national limit Buffington executive director of the Washington Fraternal order of police
says cops have a higher rate of dying by suicide now than in the line of duty so we recognize
that law enforcement can support the area and my personal life with plate the revenue from
the plate and loan go toward helping wellness initiatives for law enforcement with a special
focus on mental health to Washington already has a specialized license plate for the law
enforcement memorial fund which is to help family members of those officers who were killed
in the line of duty this new plate would be different and Nichole she says the money would be
used for type of peer to peer counseling program known as critical incident stress management
to allow for law enforcement and other first responders have been exposed to a critical and
that it should start working I grew up describing the call with tears to address some of those
considered and then they're able to actually feet additional mental health support I think go
into that process and from there the goal would be to expand have rebuilt that we want to
build a skate White team that can go into an area where there's been a major critical and
connect them with fired two regional team that can the polling as well as a team that support
be a family of the officer there's a major critical infinite and area impact being multiple officers
and community no other arson existing programs like this now for officers opinion says law
enforcement agencies are not funded level they need to be for that but more importantly of
the program they want to offer would be independent of their employer which is important in
the day with a mental health issue and it needs are being met him fighting general addressing
133

mental health depression TPS feet be a hard thing to talk about in light of day and we're coming
to a level of accepted but in society and improvising like on our many people harder to talk
about we need to find a place that it comfortable it faith and a protector conversation so we
want to provide about funding she said just having this conversation about the license plate
could help another way is for the opportunity to really change the conversation about mental
health especially in our first responders and sustained exposure to trauma that they matched
out Here's what she means by that at the famed exposure over and over again and if you're in
the professions or 5 days or 30 years these things build up and every and then new response to
bears the weight of everything that happened prior to the and so I mean that's those are big
maybe have my making them for them there but for the game's repetitive exposure to think
that you know we went I express turned America says setting alight on that could help all over
the community able to talk about it bring in July it remind people of the statistics and that
challenge with with doing the job of law enforcement and being a first responder I think we can
really change the conversation we're having our youth about bridging the gap between
community members and law enforcement community that's why they're asking for once
helped get this new license they created would have to be approved by the legislature but
Here's what I need everybody to help and ordered even get in front of the legislature they have
to first get 35 100 signatures on a petition that doesn't cost anything signed a purchase petition
and you're not Aided by the but if it's approved you can find a petition at my northwest com if
you want to show your support.
KOBI
Nov 25, 2019 • 9:19 AM

B_NOV_OREG_176

suicide... it's an epidemic that claims thousands of lives each year ... and impacts families for a
lifetime. saturday marked 'international survivors of suicide loss day'. people from across
southern oregon came together for support and remembrance.. at an event at the smullin
health center in medford. the free event featured screenings of documentaries about healing
from the loss of a loved one. "when we have loved ones friends, family, that are struggling,
whether they are known to be depressed or whether we just have a sense or feeling that
something is happening that we reach out, that we take that step in compassion to ask." i was
fortunate enough to speak on a panel with other survivors ... sharing our own stories of loss...
and how to cope and heal. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide...
there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis
counselor.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Nov 26, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_NOV_WASH_101

a new study finds young people identifying as lgbtq are more likely to have attempted suicide in
the past year compared to their peers in the risk of suicide attempts is highest among American
Indian or Alaska native individual and country to Chatterjee reports the new study It's nearly
35000 youth was conducted by the travel project a nonprofit that works with LGBTQ youth
134

meet katie is CR organization CEO the bond that O.J. maybe keep your ear or or more than 4
times more likely we would ask me about that there appeared and American Indian or Alaska
need to LGBTQ youth or tuna Hoff times more likely to attempt suicide than their White peers
pay he says discrimination faced by LGBTQ youth puts them at a higher risk and those who are
American Indian and Alaska native face additional discrimination they also experienced
oppression cough a have higher rates of poverty and is also limited that crap become truly
appropriate mental health care.
News Radio KEX
Nov 26, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_177

breaking news in Vancouver where two people were hospitalised after being shot in the parking
lot of serious J Anderson elementary school this afternoon the suspect fled the scene and was
chased by police he stopped pad Parkway and Drazen road were shot and killed himself court
County sheriff's deputies say school had been let out for the day and most of the students were
gone northeast 104th Street is closed near the school had Parkway and reason road are also
closed for the investigation.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 26, 2019 • 7:56 PM

B_NOV_WASH_102

I was up in new York but looked at one point in his life he comes to new York and its border
with getting set before the St Lawrence this yesterday he bored with getting its first time Y Y
see there well you read he did checked himself in to a mental hospital because he was starting
to have suicidal thoughts and he ended up in this career bill tation center over Burke
Foundation in upstate new York and while there he befriended a guy named Chuck Smith after
he was discharged from the burke Foundation he ran into trucks Smith in new York city and
hurling it enough this was at the height of the depression he was having trouble making ends
meet he was finding himself sometimes sleeping on Park benches Chuck Smith said I'm bored
with this family want to come in you can share my room for free what happens Yes what
happens that's initial it Yeah and it was then again shortly thereafter that he attempted to in
the Guineans bathroom of the sectors health care in their bathroom Yes at that time Ryan was
15 me and half was still hope read marriage Yes he becomes obsessed later with half Yes and
the session we believe starts in that period of time when he's there Yes he turns into a figure he
calls the snake when but before the snake moment but if he goes off to say Lawrence account
couldn't meet at the sate arts Academy yet he has a fellow student who watches the game Izzy
dems Skelos's he gets a well busy dems skews young man I grew up in upstate new York the sun
core Jewish immigrant father was a rag picker and but you know he had a great athletic talent
great deal of love in a very very smart young man.

135

KING-SEA (NBC)
Nov 26, 2019 • 5:25 PM

B_NOV_WASH_103

we are seeing more and more studies of how screen time is negatively affecting adolescents.
research is tracking how the rise of screen use is tied to a rise in depression. missing screen
time can lead to a fear of missing out. it can also lead to cyber bullying. multiple national
surveys on teen habits found that teen depression has risen from 8% to 13% over a seven-year
period. and their suicide rate has doubled. in cases of self-harm are also up. more research is
needed but there are strong indicators that social media and screen time are helping to drive
these statistics. so parents and guardians, talk about screen time and the potential harm and
try to keep the phone out of their bedrooms and don't let kids use the phone an hour before
bed. make sure your kids are also ready to process the cyber world.
News Radio KEX
Nov 26, 2019 • 7:21 PM

B_NOV_OREG_178

what looked partisan may never toom right they never do right so in that one I don't know you
know if that's even a conspiracy theory anymore but this what is it's just one of those things
that event I think almost everybody believes is way too suspicious even if you are completely
fine okay killed himself does look the guy there's a lot of reasons for getting himself Here's a
guy who lived his entire life If you know the following receiving every little pleasure he wanted
from every little legal person or illegal act he could have maintained it from and now he's in jail
cell he can do anything his life is obviously over he's not getting out of that cell it's over he's
disgraced he's disgraced completely which is bizarre because really he did the things that he
was caught for but you know he's being Discreet for long ago up anyway through the whole the
whole situation then came through on either side of prison which was really prison he was he
was in his own private wing of a judge read jail is by himself and he was able to leave for 12
hours a day 6 days a week ago were work so that's not really prison Hey that's not really done
and that's not rezone but he was able to continue this lifestyle and we don't know how many
women you know he was he was with but we do know that like when he he had this is after and
women is not the right word I should have should I should note woman not the right word in
this particular context but he was you know he was like well these girls he got caught went to
jail then got out finally clear himself of all these huge punishments because I mean when you
when you Y abo Lou worrying 30 40 50 high school girls' first 4 sacks to her home I mean you
figure private weighing leaving all the time in the new year sells about right for punishment in a
unbelievable right and me but he continues to like for example he continues has has reporters
over for interviews to a House in new York and he picked who answers the door like a teenage
girl 19 year-old girl Yeah Michael the the eastern block Yeah as this is not good this amazing
story it says it's amazing.

136

KOAB (PBS)
Nov 26, 2019 • 7:40 PM

B_NOV_OREG_179

judy: many of our viewers nowkah rein jean-pierre as a democrat -- know karine jean-pierre as
a democratic strategist. she -- in her book she tells her story about greing up the child of haitian
immigrants. i sat down with her and began by asking how her upbringing shaped her life. >>
that immigrantng upbri, growing up in new york, it shaped everything and anything that i'm
about. who the person that i sit here, that sits before you, my hard working, my perseverance,
the way i meet, see people and talk to people. it has made me who i am the type of mother
that i have become. partner that i have become. my parents, haitian immigrants, it's like the
immigrant experience. they came here for the american dream. that in many ways eluded
them. k thin still live check to check. buhet in tir eyes because i made it to the white house,
because their daughter went to clum ark they've received it. so it's been interesting watching
their experience, they'vne bee knocked downd aroun they get back up. so when i'm knocked
down, i get back up. so that experience with them growing up has really made me so much
stronger. judy: your family is threaded through so much of this book. your father, a taxi driver
but trained as an engineer. and your mother had been a nanny and then a caregiver. both of
them very involved in your life. high expectations for you. >> high expectations and it was
overwhelming, being the oldest of three siblings. i had to take care of my siblings while my
parents were working sevix, sen days a week. i had to feed them and i'm eight years older than
my sister, 10 years older than my brother. i was pretty young when they were toddlers. make
sure their food was cooked. make sure diapers were changed. because they had to provide for
the family. and all of that heavyness, all that responsibility, led to some dark times as well. judy:
you write about secrets in the family, things they didn't talk about. you write about your own
struggles at points in your life with emotional difficulties, your own sexuality, coming out as a
gay woman. and how your parents responded to that. >> one of the thing, there's so many
things i bring up that you just laid out perfectly but one of them is mental health. one of the
reasons i talk about it in the book is because there's a stigma connected to mental health. and
people don't want to talk about what they go through. when they are in dark times. and they
don't know how to get out of it. because of the pre ossuresf me growing up and just feeling like
an outsider all through my growing up, my young days, there was a time where i attempted to
take my life. i attempted suicide. it was a dark, dark time in my life, clearly. and so i put that in
the book. i put it in the book because i want to help people. i want anybody who has ever felt
that way to feel like there's a way out. and to know there's a way out. judy: what do you think
got you through that? >> i think back again, even though there was pressures from the
community, pressures from my family, that i put onto myself really in many ways, i think
because growing up, my parents always instilled in me that i was -- that i was going to survive,
that i was going to be a star that i could do anything i wanted, somehow, somewhere, that was
still there. even though i was so down and out. judy: and you kept pushing through you finished
college, went on to graduate school. ended up going into politics. why do you think you did? >>
i think i juster psevered. i think it's the being knock down and going back up again. i now teach
atbi columa university, an ivy league school. i have to mentor and teach young people. and help
them get through their lives. and i have a 5-year-old. my partner and i have this beautiful 5year-old daughter. and i think that helps me persevere. that helps me understand what kind of
137

world do i want to leave for her. judy: you talk about advice to young people that they don't
have to work at the white house, which you did, or the state capitol, that they can make a
difference in politics and policy at the grass roots level. >> i believe they can. the way they'll
make that change is if their voice is in the fight. if they step in to the political arena. whether it's
working on that issue or deciding to run themselves or working for a candidate that they really
believe in and want them to decide their future. and i tell that in my book. i lay out the
blueprint and the playbook for doing that. judy: there's a point in the boork you not only
worked for barack obama, you worked for anthony wiener and other politicians who didn't
exactly end up in the right place. >> i say in the book, don't put people up on a pedestal. people
are flaw. we are flawed individuals. and i also tell young people, if you do end up working for a
aw fled candidate, make sure, you've got to make sure you take care of your career as well.
make sure you navigate through those waters so you can continue ou yr career. it's a finine le
to walk on. you have to continue sticking with what you believe in. judy: our political strategist.
you're a democratic political strategist, so i won't let you get away without asking you, how do
you believe democrats can defeat donald trump next year? do you think they have a good
chance of winning? >> i do. and the reason why is because we have been energized the past
three years. we, the democratic base, the resistance if you want to call it that. and we shown
up in races, in big ways. in historical numbers. there's an energy there when you look at the
polling, it says what do democrats want the most. they want somebody who can beat donald
trump. that's the thing. whoever is the nominee has to understand, it's going to take a
movement to beat donald trump. it's not going to be easy. but we can do it. you've got to get
young people out. you've got to get people of color, black voters, black women who have been
the backbone of the democratic party. you have to get women, educated white women out.
you have to get everybody. got to get that coalition and people who don't normallyot ve or
don't think their vote matters. you've got to convince them to get them out. it's going to take a
movement. judy: the book is "moving forward: a story of hope, hard work, and moving
forward." >
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 26, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_NOV_WASH_104

We are following breaking news at this hour in Vancouver and the Colombian is reporting a
shooting in the parking lot of Sarah J Anderson elementary school son northeast 104th Street
the school put into lockdown the paper's reporting it appears to be a suicide however police
have yet to confirm that information we're looking working more working to learn more about
the situation will bring you any updates as soon as we can.
KOBI
Nov 26, 2019 • 9:48 PM

B_NOV_OREG_180

welcome back to our five on 5, were talking about the in this together campaign with nbc5s
blakely mchugh and our vp and general manager, bob wise.so, bob we were talking during the
break, you know, contagion, its something that people may not know about but it is very
difficult for media to address suicide. it has been historical incredibly difficult for us to report on
138

unless its a celebrity.but weve found, especially were kinda blazing a trail in oregon as a group
of journalists throughout the state to address it head on and just address it responsibly, right,
so to talk about the numbers or talk about the amount of people that are going through
traumatic issue in their life that may lead to suicide, again, we wanna circumvent that and
report on it in a way that we can talk about messages of hope. yeah, make a difference in our
community, its a horrible thing.so blakely, weve run ads, weve announced it that you wanna
speak to various groups.youve done some of that, can you tell us about those experiences? yes,
weve done some of that.weve spoken at a rotary group here in medford, at united way, as well
as, just over the weekend with winter spring event for international day for survivors for
someone who they lost someone to suicide, and i think its really important for us to run things
on tv, but also get out there in community, make those connections with people so you feel a
little more comfortable to share your story and talk about your story so i think that is really an
important aspect of what were doing is to go get this word out and talk about it and also just
for me to share my story with others as well.in turns of how people can reach out to us if they
wanna hear more, share their stories with us yes, please. of course call us here at the station,
they can ask for me and well get ahold of them that way.we also have an email set up
inthistogether@kobi5.com and you can send us emails directly to us, you wanna share your
stories, talk to one of us, maybe looking for connections, we are always there to help with that.
yeah, thats wonderful.so bob, where does this program go? its still relatively in its early stages,
where do we see this goingfrom here? you know weve been really fortunate, craig, to get a
group of partners that are kinda our steering committee if you will, but as part of that group
were bringing in the professionals that this is their world.in reality we cant screw this up, we
have to be really smart on how the messaging is done and we gotta count on people a lot
smarter than us in this world to be able to make that happen.so, you know like stacy brubaker,
kristin fettig with jackson county suicide prevention, theyre helping us craft these messages to
make sure that were on point.but the bottom line is the beauty of the long term campaign, the
partners that we welcome back to our five on 5, were talking about the in this together
campaign with nbc5s blakely mchugh and our vp and general manager, bob wise.is the beauty
of the long term campaign, the partners that we have, is guiding this down a road of hopefully
solving peoples problems through the ability to know that there is somebody out there to talk
to. and as you mentioned, blakely, inthistogether@kobi5.com, you can call our main number
541-779-5555 if you have any ideas or questions.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 26, 2019 • 5:20 PM

B_NOV_WASH_105

2000 inmates in the United States last year died by suicide 4000 gag this is not unusual some
solo somewhat friends and some by you know 80 numbers of ways this is a problem and this
particular check Bill rather facility I guess I like to call it has a long history of this particular one it
is there is nothing in any of this that makes you convinced this was a guy who was fully
prepared to kill some those high-profile case happening in the world at the time I would say the
world don't know was it was it was not actually this was like a guy who they are who everyone
needed to mean the fact is they have all the evidence they needed this guy was going to go
away forever he had he had spent enormous sums of money and collected enormous sums of
139

money to keep his lifestyle the where was he never look away look at the better of the deal
that he actually tried to kill prosecutors to get out that was a desperation move because he is
going to like hemorrhage most of his wealth just to get out pre trial Yeah and when that didn't
happen he went into depression when he went into depression and implicate some of the
richest and most powerful White White White with the done than anyone but me Stan what
card the have left to play let me stay low but I'm excited because the video evidence from Mike
video evidence from his cell the the way it is broken also wants the guard no can say that when
the guards went by half hearted check on out there online shopping and or sleeping they could
remember which one they were doing they were okay it's just shocking I that prison guards
were lax they do these I've never heard of that happening in an American prison I you when I
see a guy he was on suicide watch I can never heard that happening including the guy we
interviewed on this show who wrote about the prison system as hard and talked about how
people feel like wife frequently were ignored and allowed to do whatever they want and
there's this crane this this clown this what's his name here berman Richard Berman clown I
mean this is the sort of rhetoric that gets people believe missed the listen to this crime my he
writes or says it's unthinkable that any jail mate let alone one it's a high profile that team would
die in custody is a wealthy investor and this cloud is like a pile of federal judge no one there
that are so limited that is not thought experiment heck you will have a lot of information on
people that would be not just incriminated the potential to put them in jail for life right you are
arrested and you are worried that these people might have you killed him so you've got this
information ready Headley ostensibly had this information who you contacted caught there's
some have some trust associate we can give them a clue because even saving this information
should stay have happened you give them a clue lightly you give them like paid hang onto that
I'm not sure I'm not gonna I'm I don't know how long the going to be in here and then It does
happen you get killed was a freshman so if he gave it his brother because apparently he hads
why haven't we heard about the continued me participating thought experiment so he gave it
to his brother his wealth and his brother has it I think his brother saying wait a minute why now
what I decide to have myself suicide did obit putting this out just gone I've got his money he did
what he did why would I want to be suicide did with an easy but by by someone what I wanted
well but why why wouldn't he won Re he's not going to be I was like Oh great he's saying he's
got this information Yeah why even the torture center saying is he a chance for the situation
the next person who also doesn't want anyone else to know about it and so many suicide equal
you get my drift though I mean like I said I like this guy but how does he how what how is it that
he is naughts able to leak any of this information if he has well as of now I just say this there
were news networks a bunch of them who knew about jeffrey obscene knew about the
pedophilia knew about the sex trafficking knew about Prince Andrew and couldn't get it on
erica's networks all you know April ANZ and am an American multimillionaire 100 Miller maybe
billionaire around a pedophile island that's not news for good the Miami Herald the aggressor
and held one weird times did and that danger where the that thing down from any Royal of
duty is addressing all the elements has heard yelling at his comment I don't know this guy led
the lifestyle like that he knew he was docking get back at a jail he really didn't want to be in jail
the rest of his life he didn't have access to any of his wealth anymore he loved himself why is
this so unusual there were those accusations a of this Mexico rancher right and you go through
this ranch and there are pictures of the party shower and there are also pictures of where the
140

cameras once where Cam is gone but this does also say why he would do that why not just
hang out why why why would he not still kill himself it still doesn't explain that of he probably
had that I was going say trumper but I don't want anybody probably had a card to pull he still
playing that card is still out there and we had to see the polls and how rare is Madame she's
disappeared She's illinois and nobody has seen here check it out it's impossible right right she's
actually out there Yeah not in jail and certainly known going to kill her Yes she's not a suicide.
News Radio KEX
Nov 26, 2019 • 7:16 PM

B_NOV_OREG_181

come around the Thanksgiving table maybe get named and some arguments but there's one
thing we all come together around which is that jeffrey epstein didn't kill himself I think we all
recognize that one's central truth ahead and I joke a little but it is now it's coming it's showing
up in polls odd that this is going to be a thing like this is going to be a thing that we all believe
soon her right eye and we went back and forth about this earlier and I don't know if there's not
really like evidence person Hey that that he schedule it just always suspicious it is Yes so is she
had denied Yes vicious you have the right but wasn't the witness's written this think River
whom the this source here from my but 45% americans baselessly believe jeffrey epstein was
murdered according to Leslie baselessly I mean look I don't like conspiracy theories all Yeah I
like seeing the evidence and even with this one like there's there are a lot of people that would
are acting in ways that don't make sense if you're trying to cover up a murder a lot of people
court hold elite unrelated to this saying things that are not consistent or don't make a lot of
sense why would they be involved in a coverup like it doesn't it it's a very far-reaching thing I
keep coming back to the idea that if you wanted to kill Jeffrey Epstein you had 10 years of this
guy just walking around miami really walking mopping up he was very available to kill anybody
he had a private eye live and you could just showed up when it was a bear right but there's a lot
of ways because jeff we have seen that much easier than waiting until he is in this cell while bill
was on the plane with their 20s what do you think he could be killed I have to pick Is a survey
monkey poll and I think the idea of baselessly here is just that you're pushing it but that right
like the cameras throughout big who guards fall asleep the guy was under suicide watch and
then pulled off the bed so you can commit suicide his cell mate was taken out of the cell just
hours before this happened the guards never checked him despite the fact they were supposed
to do that every 15 minutes I mean there's so many things in them the paper sheets they're
supposed to have the terror way instead of you know strangle somebody soul I mean how
many things came together to allow him to commit suicide it is suspicious it is a denier it's at
least suspicious I eat it right I mean there's not a lot of conspiracy theories that guy by in jail in
mean we all have our little pad so Yeah right I feel like there's some and this is why I think it will
be a big one for a lot of people are up to half of America also got to leave it as is fast they need
to do a really thorough report and convince the American people if this was not something
more than suicide you really need to walk people through I think that does it just doesn't seem
possible 34% believe this in August from 34 of 45 while only a couple months only 16% believe
he died by suicide that's down Wow 33% has been cut in half while all and they hit it really the
remainder is they're not sure a 45 16 39% untrue that woword to the ball game that's a high
percentage of insurer to Yeah well look I were none of us were there Yeah none of us have read
141

the report beginning to end I mean obviously some media people have done but generally
speaking no one it's just it's one of those things it just doesn't make sense to me I don't like the
my chosen conspiracy theory Milo little Pat one which turned out to be a seemingly true.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Nov 27, 2019 • 8:10 AM

B_NOV_WASH_106

Marysville police officers in connection with a fatal shooting last year Eric Heights has the
update Jefferson was shot at least 20 times by officers as they say he moved towards his wife
with a knife according to court documents obtained by the Everett Herald his wife said he had
been showing signs of being suicidal and might have recently used drugs the two had been
living apart for weeks but she says when she got home from work on September 18th Sims was
sitting on the Couch the argue about whether he could stay both were in the driveway of the
home when police arrived she States court documents she thinks her husband had every
intention of killing her and possibly himself.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 27, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_NOV_WASH_107

a study published in the Journal of the American medical Association reports the overall life
expectancy in the U.S. is down for the third consecutive year experts say death rates from
suicide overdoses and health issues are helping drive that number lower Meanwhile for the 4th
straight year the fertility rate in the U.S. has dropped the National Center for health statistics
says there were just under 60 berths for everyone 1000 women of childbearing age 28 team
that they say is a record low.
AM 860
Nov 27, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_182

It wasn't a school shooting but it did happen in an elementary school parking lot yesterday after
school in Vancouver this is the scene and no parent ever wants to witness brought to life and
elementary schools surrounded with crime scene tape and parking lot filled with dozens of law
enforcement officers approximately 25 minutes after the dismissal Bell rang at Sarah Jane
Henderson elementary gunshots rang out in the school's parking lot the school's dean of the
school let out for the day so there's very few people around the Clark County sheriff's office
said a man opened fire on two women sitting in a van deputies said two children were in the
backseat Fortunately those children are hurt the to gunshot victims were rushed to the hospital
that was Jenny young was going 6 news reporting after the shooting the man took off and
eventually committed suicide when police caught up with him and asked him to drop the gun
and one of the women that the man shot that had a restraining order against him.

142

AM 860
Nov 27, 2019 • 7:30 AM

B_NOV_OREG_183

a domestic violence situation played out in a school parking lot Vancouver yesterday school is
out for just 25 minutes when a man just released from prison shot two women in a van and
Sarah J Anderson elementary school par he not the school's dean of the school let out for days
so there's very few people around the two women reportedly have life-threatening injuries the
man killed himself shortly after the parking lot shooting.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 27, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_184

reporter: the man who killed one woman and injured another in the parking lot of the sarah j
anderson elementary school is keelan hill. he shot himself dead afterwards. we learned of the
woman killed had a restraining order against him. keelan hill was out-of-court pending charges.
he violated a restraining order by the victim. yesterday afternoon at the school, deputy say he
shot into the woman's car, killing her and injuring another woman in the front, leaving bullet
holes and a smashed driver side window. he took off in a car and took his life when confronted
by police. the names of the women have not been released. court records indicate he had
repeatedly violated the restraining order and was behind bars until posting bail last friday. as
part of the restraining order, he was not supposed to have had any weapons.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Nov 27, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_185

now to a deadly shooting outside of Vancouver elementary school. the gunman police say shot
two people in the parking lot, one of them died the other is expected to survive. they were
inside a car at the time three kids were in the backseat. tonight, our sarah hurwitz is walking us
through court documents that are painting a disturbing picture of ongoing domestic violence.
>> the sheriff's office says the victim that died here at sarah j. elementary had a restraining
order against 38 yearly callen hill stemming from a lengthy history of domestic violence, and so
today we spoke with the resource center on how you can get help if you feel unsafe. several
bullet holes through the window of a minivan showed the grim aftermath of what court
documents claim is a lengthy history of domestic violence. the clark county sheriff's office says
five people were inside that car when a man identified as callen hill shot two of them. the
victims two adults, one who died. >> gunshot wounds the other with nonlife threatening
injuries. three kids were also inside unhurt. the clark county sheriff afternoon office says hill
took off later stopped his car and shot and killed himself. the sheriff's office confirmed the
victim who died had a restraining order against hill and he had personal only been out of jail on
a stalking charge for identify a days court documents show a woman filed a restraining order in
october saying i fear for my life he violates the no-contact order and is getting angrier. he was
violent toward her and threw her against the wall. stephanie barr is with the ywca of clark
county which has a number of domestic violence resources. she says unfortunately the reality
what have played out tuesday night is not uncommon in these situations. >> i have been doing
143

this work for 17 years. and unfortunately, this is not the first loss that we have experienced. and
it won't be the last loss. and it's always heartbreaking and up fewer 80ing. i think often victims
are doing everything they can to keep themselves safe. it's important to remember that the
legal system and production orders are a good and valuable resource it's not it's just a piece of
paper to some perpetrators. >> reporter: it's important to let victims know the resources that
they have they may be more likely to go to a family member that say sheller but that could be
the first step to is a safety. in a case like this, relocating the victims are getting into an
emergency domestic violence center are options. if oven safe or know someone who you can
contact the hotline listing on your screen right now. they have emergency shelters and
advocacy groups. >> just a terrible situation. sarah, thank you.
News Radio KEX
Nov 27, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_NOV_OREG_186

a domestic violence situation led to the shooting Tuesday afternoon in the parking lot of
Vancouver elementary school the man shot two adults and a minivan Libya haley details K2 she
was a parent teacher conference which hear gunshots and a woman came in an absolute or
screaming holding their Arman telling size suicide net suite call an ambulance call 9.1 two
victims were hospitalized the suspect then took off the car and was pursued by cops when he
stopped he was armed with a gun with it out and then shot himself in the head he was also
taken to a hospital but his condition is not been released the victims had a restraining order
against the suspect who had recently been released from jail.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 27, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_187

we've learned the name of a man who police say shot at two women at a school in vancouver
yesterday. deputies tell us keland hill shot into the car at anderson elementary yesterday
afternoon and that it involved a domestic dispute. jenny: one of the women were killed and one
survived. lisa balick is live with the latest. lisa: it have been right there at the parking lot of the
sarah j anderson elementary school. this morning, law officers confirmed that the gunman,
keland hill, is also dead. law enforcement says keland hill, age 38, was out of jail pending a court
hearing and had an active restraining order from the woman who was killed. her name is not
yet being released. sheriffs deputies say hill shot into the woman's car while it was parked in
the lot after school. two children were in the back but not injured, a third child was still inside
the school. hill took off in a vehicle. deputies chased him and they say when he stopped at
northeast andresen road and padden parkway, he got out, and when they confronted him, he
killed himself with a gun. the children who were in the car were taken away by child protective
services last night. school is closed today at the start of thanksgiving break. but you are seeing a
lot of cars here. we have learned there was a teachers and staff meeting called to talk about
what went on here yesterday.

144

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 27, 2019 • 9:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_188

jennifer: we are uncovering more about a deadly shooting outside a vancouver school where a
woman was killed in her car with kids in the backseat. the woman had a restraining order
against the gunman who shot and killed himself after a police chase. he was 38-year-old keland
hill of vancouver. our lisa balick is live by the sara j. anderson school where this happened. >>
today, we tracked down previous court appearances of the gunman on domestic violence
charges and found a frightening premonition. 38-year-old keland hill had repeatedly appeared
in a clark county courtroom in recent months in connection with domestic assault charges-the
prosecutor asked for an increase in bail, fearing for the life of her client. >> the state believes
that if the defendant is released, he will kill the victim. >> that bail was raised to a quarter of a
million dollars but hill posted bail last friday and was not supposed to have any guns. >> i
wonder if the court will authorize a supervised relief -- release with gps monitoring of the
defendant, considering his activities. i think it would be in the best interest. >> hill was even in
court yesterday morning the day of the shooting getting a judge to ok his travel to hood river
for work. then yesterday afternoon here at the school just after most students had left for
thanksgiving break, deputies say he shot into a car killing one woman, injuring another leaving
bullet holes and a smashed driver's side window. he took off in car and then took his life when
confronted by police. the names of the women have not been officially released. there were
three children in the backseat of the car and they were on hard -- unharmed. the judge did not
order the gps tracking device for hill.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Nov 27, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_189

the deadly shooting at an elementary school parking lot. >> this happened in clark county. we
told you about it last night. a man shot two people sitting in a car at sarah j. anderson school.
three children in the car were not hurt. one of the shooting victims died, the other is expected
to survive. the suspect has been i.d.ed as 38-year-old keyland hill. he led them on a chase
before he shot and killed himself. there was an active restraining order involving one of the
victims, filed against him in october. hill had also been arrested on a stalking charge as well as
violating a no contact order. just five days ago, he posted the $250,000 bail to get him out of
jail.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 27, 2019 • 5:02 PM

B_NOV_OREG_190

new information this evening about a shooting outside of a vancouver school tuesday night. a
mother of three was shot and killed by her estranged husband. police described this as an
extensive history of domestic violence. this happens in vancouver last night. in the parking lot
of sarah j anderson elementary school. police confirmed today that the mother did die from her
injuries and the husband after leading police on a short pursuit died by suicide.

145

News Radio KEX
Nov 27, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_191

the woman was shot and killed in the parking lot of Vancouver's Sarah J Anderson elementary
school yesterday is identified by friends as tiffany Hill she was shot by her husband killing Hill
pages Kelly has resisted any had a restraining order against her husband and friends were trying
helper they told me tiffany recently lived in fear believing her husband a fellow Marine was
Kate more violence today the family set up a GoFundMe to help the 3 children now and in the
future as they cope with this tragic loss feeling Hill shot and killed himself Tiffany's mother was
also in the car and wounded in the shooting she remains hospitalized 3 children were also in
the car they were not physically injured.
Fox 12 Plus
Nov 27, 2019 • 8:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_192

now to a deadly shooting outside a vancouver elementary school. the gunman, police say, shot
two people in the parking lot. one of them died, the other is expected to survive. they were
inside a car at the time, three kids were in the back seat. tonight -- our sarah hurwitz is walking
us through court documents, that paint a distrubing picture, of ongoing domestic violence.
112719txy-- sarah the sheriff's office says the victim who died in that shooting here at sarah j.
elementary had a restraining order against 38-year-old keland hill-- stemming from a lengthy
history of domestic violence. we spoke with a resource center today on how you can get help if
you feel unsafe. several bullet holes through the window of a minivan show the grim aftermath
of what court documents claim is a lengthy history of domestic violence. the clark county
sheriff's office says five people were inside that car--- when a man identified as keland hillshot
two of them.the victims--- two adults one who died from gunshot wounds the other with nonlife threatening injuries three kids were also inside-- unhurt. the clark county sheriff's office
says hill then took off--- later stopped his car --- and shot and killed himself. the sheriff's office
confirms the victim who died had a restraining order against hill and he'd only been out of jail
on a stalking charge for a few days.court records show a woman filed a restraining order against
hill in october saying "i fear for my life. he continues to violate the no contact order and i know
is getting angrier." the victim wrote he was violent toward her --- and at one point threw her
against the wall. court documents also state attempted murder charges against hill involving
the woman were previously dropped in north carolina. stephanie barr is with ywca of clark
county which has a number of domestic violence resources. she says unfortunately the reality
of what played out tuesday night isn't uncommon in these types of situations. sot((i've been
doing this work for 17 years and unfortunately this is not the first loss that we've experienced
and it won't be the last loss. and it's always heartbreaking and infuriating.)) ááástitchááásot ((i
think often victims are doing everything they can to keep themselves safe and its important to
remember that while the legal system and protection orders are a good and valuable resource
that it's just a piece of paper to some perpetrators.)) barr says it's important to let victims know
the resources they have they may be more likely to go to a friend or family member than a
shelter but that could be the first step to safety. in a case this like this with repeated restraining
order violations she says relocating victims or getting into an emergency domestic violence
146

center are options. if you or you know someone who needs help in ywca clark county you can
call the 24-hour hotline listed on your screen it also has a domestic violence shelter and support
groups.
Portland's CW
Nov 27, 2019 • 10:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_193

we are uncovering more about a deadly shooting outside of Vancouver school where a woman
was killed in her car with children in the backseat. the woman had a restraining order against
the gunman who shot and killed himself after a police chase. he was 38-year-old keland hill of
of Vancouver. the Clark county sheriff's office said students had already been released and
most of them had left the scene when the shooting happened.
AM 860
Nov 27, 2019 • 11:57 PM

B_NOV_OREG_194

there's a piece today and again from the Washington Post talking about the fact that americans
are continuing to die young at a rather alarming rates American life expectancy drops the third
consecutive year according to law Shington Post death rate from suicide drug overdoses liver
disease and dozens of other causes and rising over the past decade for young middle-aged
adults driving overall life expectancy in the United States for consecutive years according to a
strikingly leaks study published Tuesday then look to the past 6 decades of mortality data the
report published in the Journal the era of the American medical Association Jemele which is
pretty persuade prestigious Journal was immediately hailed by outside researchers for
comprehensive treatment of still enigmatic trend reversal of historical patterns and launched
hitting despite spending more on health care than any other country the U.S. is increasing
mortality and falling life expectancy for people aged 25 to 64 who should be in the prime of
their lives which has nothing to do with health care system and everything to do with suicide
opioid epidemic and obesity the single greatest factor in this in this particular study is obesity
and it is very weighed down an article way down the article according to one of the analysts
was looking at the study Stephen Wolf is retro ready for the centre's on society and health at
Virginia Commonwealth University a says some limited due to obesity some limited to drug
addiction some that maybe you'd track drag from cellphones given the breadth and
pervasiveness of the trend suggest the cause has to his stomach there's the root cause it's
causing ever held across many different dimensions working age also I wrote entire books
suggesting that the rising opioid epidemic andy any increase in suicide is at least partially due to
lack of meaning that americans are feeling each and every day.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Nov 27, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_195

we are learning new information about the deadly shooting in a school parking lot yesterday
afternoon in vancouver. the man who shot and killed one woman and injured another outside
sara j anderson school is keland hill of vancouver. he shot and killed himself after a police
147

chase. we've learned the woman killed had a restraining order against him. hill was out of court
pending charges he had violated a restraining order by the victim. but yesterday afternoon at
the school, deputy say he shot into the woman's car, killing her and injuring another woman in
the front-there were 3 children unharmed in the back of the minivan. he took off in car and
then took his life when confronted by police. the names of the women have not been released.
court records indicate hill repeatedly violated the restraining order and a prosecutor feared this
would happen. >> the state believes if the defendant gets released, he will kill the victim.
reporter: hill was behind bars until posting bail last friday, a judge was asked to order a gps
monitoring device for hill but decided against it when he said fail. much more on this story in
the coming few days.
Fox 12 Plus
Nov 27, 2019 • 9:05 PM

B_NOV_OREG_196

now to a deadly shooting outside a vancouver elementary school. police say a man shot two
people in the parking lot. one victim died -- the other is expected to survive. they were inside a
car at the time -- with three kids in the back seat. fox 12's sarah hurwitz is showing us court
documents -- that reveal a disturbing history of domestic violence. 112719txy-- sarah the
sheriff's office says the victim who died in that shooting here at sarah j. elementary had a
restraining order against 38-year-old keland hill-- stemming from a lengthy history of domestic
violence. we spoke with a resource center today on how you can get help if you feel unsafe.
several bullet holes through the window of a minivan show the grim aftermath of what court
documents claim is a lengthy history of domestic violence. the clark county sheriff's office says
five people were inside that car--- when a man identified as keland hillshot two of them.the
victims--- two adults one who died from gunshot wounds the other with non-life threatening
injuries three kids were also inside-- unhurt. the clark county sheriff's office says hill then took
off--- later stopped his car --- and shot and killed himself. the sheriff's office confirms the victim
who died had a restraining order against hill and he'd only been out of jail on a stalking charge
for a few days.court records show a woman filed a restraining order against hill in october
saying "i fear for my life. he continues to violate the no contact order and i know is getting
angrier." the victim wrote he was violent toward her --- and at one point threw her against the
wall. court documents also state attempted murder charges against hill involving the woman
were previously dropped in north carolina. stephanie barr is with ywca of clark county which
has a number of domestic violence resources. she says unfortunately the reality of what played
out tuesday night isn't uncommon in these types of situations. sot((i've been doing this work for
17 years and unfortunately this is not the first loss that we've experienced and it won't be the
last loss. and it's always heartbreaking and infuriating.)) ááástitchááásot ((i think often victims
are doing everything they can to keep themselves safe and its important to remember that
while the legal system and protection orders are a good and valuable resource that it's just a
piece of paper to some perpetrators.)) barr says it's important to let victims know the resources
they have they may be more likely to go to a friend or family member than a shelter but that
could be the first step to safety. in a case this like this with repeated restraining order violations
she says relocating victims or getting into an emergency domestic violence center are options. if

148

you or you know someone who needs help in ywca clark county you can call the 24-hour
hotline listed on your screen it also has a domestic violence shelter and support groups.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 28, 2019 • 3:56 PM

B_NOV_WASH_108

life is full of bittersweet transitions it's difficult to know how these changes will impact is over
time for some people difficult transitions like retirement to 4 hours or loss of a loved one can
hit harder than expected and bake tribute to feelings of hopelessness or even thoughts of
suicide and the risk of suicide is even hotter from in over 50 who served our country guys like
me that's why I support for friends and family makes such a big difference every you were or
the actions could help save a life together we got to this and learn how you can help save a life
the veterans crisis line.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Nov 28, 2019 • 4:46 PM

B_NOV_WASH_109

ptsd and veterans suicide it is an epidemic right now in our country if you haven't heard about
it but the majority of afflicted military members choose not to get treatment through the v.a.
here in our state there is another option for them and it is free for veterans that's right cue 13
seem moldova's mario and chief photojournalist steve federer askar take us to a place called
hope for heroes horsemanship center in yum or horses are the therapists calming this is ok ok
she's a anxious right now because i'm a little anxious that trains are very good at hiding things
yes they can stand there to attention and do not know that they are just like shaking like a leaf
inside and these horses are the best lie detectors i have on the place debbie was talking about
how we hide our emotions really well well sometimes we know where we're feeling ourselves
and the horse is going to mirror that and then we can either take a deep breath or whatever it
is that you need to do come on so what these horses are doing is actually teaching these
veterans coping skills so they can take out with them into the community i never got the
training that they're providing here maybe it could be taking a few deep breaths i know i'm
coming down a little hard take a nice big sci and wouldn't you know this horse immediately loris
had and takes a big sigh just like the veteran there you go he's such a good boy stephen you're
up next i think i'm learning to be more in the moment start walking that's something that i
really have a hard time with his being in the moment i'm always thinking of something else
good job usually it's things that happen in afghanistan but when you're with with these animals
they they really require you to be in the moment because she well they're they're big creatures
and they can potentially they can hurt you well we made it through eight weeks yes great you
guys did good when they first came to us the first week they were so apprehensive about
working with the horses graduation for the introduction to horsemanship and just to see the
confidence that they built and those last eight weeks thank you for doing this you guys bring so
much joy to me you have no idea i'm excited to be able to ride very excited to be over here i
think we're ready to go the ones that have actually said to me that this horse really changed my
mind about committing suicide give me purpose for living again how can you not think that
what we're doing is not making a huge difference there's something magical about these
149

creatures and there's a bonding that happens when you get on a horse and you know and it's
just a really cool feeling who knows maybe i end up starting one of these myself oh that's great
is the whole idea we get more people involved it's awesome.
Fox 12 Plus
Nov 28, 2019 • 6:25 AM

B_NOV_OREG_197

mary: welcome home, mr. bailey. rob: all this movie is, is about this guy s wonderful life. where
could it go wrong? george: there’s some sort of an accident. my company is short in their
account. devon: george has tanked his family business, it’s his family legacy. sam: and he s
ready to end his own life. he s about to jump off that bridge. but clarence, the angel, who had
seen the whole story and knows who george really is, that for george bailey to jump is the
wrong thing to do. so he steps in. naathan: and clarence, he knows that what s going to insight
him is, you know, saving someone else because that s what george is. he s a hero who does the
right thing. devon: and so george goes through this whole thing of maybe i don t want to kill
myself but i wish i ve never been born. clarence: yeah. so you still think killing yourself would
make everyone feel happier, eh? george: oh, i don t know. i guess you’re right. i suppose it
would have been better if i d never been born at all. sam: and then clarence takes him through
his life if he hadn t been born. clarence: your brother, harry bailey, broke through the ice and
was drowned at the age of nine. naathan: this is the point in the movie that s very similar to
christmas carol in a sense that it’s that kind of the ghost of christmas past and present.
clarence: every man on that transport died. harry wasn t there to save them because you
weren t there to save harry. sam: and he comes to realize something we already knew.
clarence: you really had a wonderful life. sam: when george realizes the incredible positive
impact of his life. george: merry christmas! man: merry christmas, george! woman: merry
christmas! sam: and that just fills him with this elation, and you see that great scene, he s
running through bedford falls. george: kids! janie! janie! tommy! naathan: and it’s just as nice
reminder to us that we always have to appreciate the big things and the little things equally.
sam: he s with his daughter and you hear those bells. zuzu: look, daddy. sam: and she makes
the realization. zuzu: every time a bell rings an angel gets his wings. sam: for decades people
have loved that movie. george: that s right. attaboy, clarence! holiday season enjoying a
fantastic collection of christmas movie moments! i m dean cain. happy holidays!
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 29, 2019 • 4:35 PM

B_NOV_OREG_198

this week marks one year since a friend of mine I knew my entire life killed himself tragically it
was a shock we never saw coming people who are contemplating who died oriented an
emergency the CEO of Blinds for life in Portland David West Brooks says they need a quick and
easy way to reach out to someone Blinds for life dot org has more info and the suicide hotline
number you can call 24 7

150

KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 29, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_199

new information tonight in a tragic case of domestic violence turned murder-suicide. according
to new court documents obtained by katu the victim tried to get her estranged husband's bail
raised just two weeks before he would go on to kill her in front of their three kids. kellee azar
live in vancouver. you got hold of those documents. what else did you learn? >> that's right. we
learned this wasn't the first time he had come after her. in fact in those court documents it says
that he has threatened her life as well as taking his own before. activists for victims of domestic
violence say getting help can be tricky. the restrain order is just a piece of paper. sometimes it's
enough to get someone to leave you alone and other times it enrages people more say
advocates. for tiffany hill the order seemed to escalate things. her estranged husband was at
clark county courthouse just two weeks before turning a gun on his wife. in fact while in
custody tiffany fought for a $2 million bail. reporting that he had been violent and threatening
before. she took a risk assessment which showed the victim is at extreme risk of being killed by
the defendant. victims advocates say people with a history of violence are likely to reoffend. >>
the potential for that person and the likelihood of them harming someone else is greater and
that in my opinion does need to be seriously considered. >> while his bail was raised from
75,000 to $250,000, he was still able to bail out within a few days.
Portland's CW
Nov 29, 2019 • 3:10 PM

B_NOV_OREG_200

mel: welcome back. i'm mel robbins. we are talking about what happens when you try to run
away from pain. it is a race you cannot win. bernard, to usewo years ago, you suffered a terrible
tragedy. can you take me back and explain what happened? >> on march 20, 2017, my
daughter, april, and my daughter monique, we were all on the phone and planning the family
trip for 2017. just like we always normally do. everybody is laughing and giggling. we ended the
phone call. right after 9:00, 20 minutes later, i get a call from my granddaughter to my phone. it
was not her, it was my son-in-law's mother. she called me and was like, you know -- dupree has
killed himself. i was like what? we just got off the phone. what? about five minutes talking
about that and then i asked how is monique taking it? how is she doing? she had the nerve to
say that he shot her too. i called meka, and my mind just running and racing. they said she was
going to be airlifted to atlanta medical in atlanta. i thought i was having a heart attack at that
point. i walked into the hospital about 1:00 in the morning. they said she was in surgery. all i
could think at that moment there, all that was running through my mind was like, i have to get
my baby, i have to take care of her. i need to make my house handicap assessable. grab the
kids, i will take care of my baby. that is all i was thinking about. i was so happy my family
showed up. both my brothers, my ex, everybody was at the hospital. grandkids. not her kids,
but meka's kids. the doctor came out. he came out about 2:00. i knew when he looked at me
and said can we go in his room to talk? when he said that, i knew. i said, no, we are all here. we
can talk right here. he said she didn't make it. i just fell out. i screamed her name. if she was in
that building, i would let her know that i am here. i couldn't save her. i didn't see this coming. i
couldn't save her. i didn't know what to do at this point. after that, meka and i walked in there.
151

she was laying on the table. it was like she was asleep. i kissed her. i hugged her. she was gone,
she was gone. she was gone. her husband -- the only thing that bothers me when i think about
it is that i don't know what happened.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Nov 29, 2019 • 6:09 PM

B_NOV_OREG_201

mourners will gather sunday evening to remember a mother shot and killed in the parking lot of
an elementary school on Tuesday. police say she's one of two people inside of a car who were
shot. three kids were also in the car at the time of the shooting - but weren't physically hurt.
keland hill shot and killed himself after leading deputies on a short chase. mourners will gather
at esther short park in vancouver -- this sunday at five.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 29, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_202

could more have been done? that's the question a lot of people are asking after a murdersuicide in vancouver. tonight we have new information from court documents where the
victim, tiffany hill, asked a judge for a higher bail for her estranged husband. >> kellee azar live
in vancouver tonight. you learned that she was actually hurt so bad that she just saw a
neurologist. >> that's right. this all happened just weeks before her estranged husband
ultimately killed her. now, they said in court documents tiffany said the reason she saw the
neurologist is she got a concussion by being thrown by her estranged husband. that's just part
of the reason she asked for higher bail. she went through the right channels. >> something that
got missed. i think it's important to look at that. >> she filed a restraining order and when
tiffany hill's estranged husband and abuser was in custody earlier this month she tried to get his
bail increased to 2 million. court documents show tiffany reported he threatened to kill her and
himself. strangled her and had avoided being arrested for domestic violence all in hopes of
keeping him away from her. after having already broken the restraining order. >> this is an
ongoing conversation that we have. how it comes down to it is a piece of paper. >> kasey cohen
is an advocate for safe choice working to help victims of domestic violence. she says sometimes
restraining orders work and other times it can make situations worse. tuesday tiffany was killed
in the parking lot of her children's school with her three kids and mother in the car at the time.
according to police her estranged husband shot her multiple times before taking his own life a
short time later. hill has a violent past. in court documents tiffany explains one of the recent
run-ins saying she sustained a concussion after the defendant threw her into a wall and into the
garage. cohen says this is important and should be weighed heavily in the justice system. >>
knowing that if someone has a history of violence and they own guns that the potential for
someone to -- there to be loss of life is much greater. >> advocates tell me that tiffany's story is
one that will be looked at to see if there's change that can be made in the future to help better
protect victims of domestic violence. >> thank you.

152

KMTR (NBC)
Nov 29, 2019 • 8:32 PM

B_NOV_OREG_203

we are learning more about the murder suicide in vancouver earlier this week. according to
court documents, just two weeks before the murder, the victim, tiffany hill, told the judge she
feared for her life and her kids lives. she asked that her estranged husband bell be set higher.
>> we are going to look at what the circumstances were around that time and, take time to
debrief and look at the situation to see if there is anything we can learn from that. >> reporter:
on tuesday, tiffany was shot multiple times by her estranged husband, jalen hill. he had a
restraining order but the suspect broke it many times even putting a gps tracker in the victim's
car. victims advocates are looking at the situation.
News Radio KEX
Nov 29, 2019 • 3:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_204

each year more than 5000 young people aged 15 to 24 died by suicide 600000 more make an
attempt that requires medical attention blood that think Ghani in spite of the magnitude of the
problem stigma and shame keeping young people from reaching out for help they see here
Let's start the conversation goes I heart radio.com /talk for tips.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 29, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_NOV_OREG_205

this is the first Thanksgiving we had without our family's lifelong friend candle he killed himself
a year ago this week when it happened it hit us like a ton of bricks because it was a complete
surprise to no one saw coming the CEO of Blinds for life in Portland David westbrook's is anyone
thinking about suicide is having an emergency an emergent get the mind of many a quick and
easy way to reach out to help one nats wine lines for life dot org is here to help the 24 7 crisis
hotline.
KONG-SEA
Nov 29, 2019 • 11:05 AM

B_NOV_WASH_110

many of you wonder this. we hypothesized as well on this. i know. was jeffrey epstein killed?
the disgraced financier who was under investigation for federal sex trafficking charges was
found dead in his jail back in august. no a former medical examiner who observed his autopsy is
claiming he may have been killed. >> i think that the evidence points toward homicide rather
than suicide. >> why? >> because there are multiple, three fractures. the thyroid cartilage, very
unusual for suicide. and more indicative of regulation, homicidal strength elation. >> what do
you think happened to epstein and why would he have been murdered in your opinion? >>
number one, i don't care but i'm glad he is gone. not saying i don't care about the subject.
number two, the only reason that there would be a homicide is if he had information that
people didn't want him to get out because he was a billionaire but he hung around with some
high-profile people. i'm sure he's got some good and some people. and if he is locked up, that is
153

when you start singing. you know? bottom line, i really don't care how he went back i'm glad he
is gone. >> we want this to play out like that movie, watch what happens but bill clinton is
connected to trump. maybe he was also on suicide watch but maybe he just committed suicide.
we have to see what happens but i think ideally it would be good tv if we had a story behind
this but there might not be one. >> it i wish he was still alive. i think he is a monster but at the
end of the day, it is probably better he is not here on this planet. but i want to make sure that if
he has any of the secrets and he is the one that has them, i want them to be exposed. i fear that
they will be exposed.
FM News 101 KXL
Nov 29, 2019 • 6:15 AM

B_NOV_OREG_206

we are learning more about the woman and who was fatally shot by her estranged husband in a
parking lot in Vancouver earlier this week tiffany kills sister says that Hill was with their mother
impact car kills 3 kids were in the back Quinn to me was shot and killed their mother was shot 3
times but is expected to lay out the children were not hurt he'll have an active restraining order
against her husband who killed himself after that shooting the family has a GoFundMe page set
up up for the kids.
B_NOV_WASH_111

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Nov 29, 2019 • 9:30 AM

3 children were in the car when their mother was shot and killed by her estranged husband in
Vancouver family said Tiffany Hill was killed in an elementary school parking lot on tuesday
police say her estranged husband killed himself a short time later after a police Chase the
children were not physically harmed but Hill's mother was she was sitting next to her in the car
was shot 3 times the family says she underwent multiple surgeries and both survived.
KMTR (NBC)
Nov 29, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_NOV_OREG_207

we are learning about the murder-suicide back over. going to court documents, just two weeks
before the murder, the victim, tiffany hill, told the job he - she feared for her life and her kids
life. >> we will look at what the circumstances were around that and take time to debrief can
look at the situation to see if there's anything we can learn from that. >> reporter: on tuesday,
tiffany was shot multiple times by her estranged husband. tiffany had a restraining order but it
was broken many times.

154

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 29, 2019 • 2:40 PM

B_NOV_WASH_112

welcome back to the lars larson show you can't get a tattoo you can buy beer you can't smoke a
cigarette or even around a hotel room in you're under 18 years of age but you can sure make
this city from boy or a girl or a girl or a boy but once somebody's private parts Ben flip flop how
likely are they to experience something called by Nary remorse I read a fascinating story was
written by wall higher who is an author and a public speaker raise public awareness about
those who later regret gender change wall welcome to the program Yeah thanks for having me
on tonight so when I read this story you profiled one young man now and Nathaniel and when I
read that I thought I I'm actually not surprised to hear this because I've heard anecdotal stories
before about people who made this very dramatic change in their physical appearance by
taking hormones and having surgery done but I don't see an awful lot of news coverage of what
happens when you regret it and it doesn't fix the problem you thought it was going to effects
Yeah both come to my web faith that you regret you didn't feel a lot of them and in my book
trans life survivors I am a lot of stories and I've been right thing about these regrettable
outcomes but for the left but years and publish many of the article stands so I'm not surprised
he because the VP young people I have 3 people in no doubt or leaks who at 18 changed
anderson all of them regretted it all on everyone around now are they the normal or they' d be
outliers because remember even back when this was more sort of theoretical like people were
talking about do 2025 years ago and the number of people actually done it was very small but
remember folks saying well you know but some of the study's again the studies were on a much
smaller groups of people that a show that if somebody feels trouble because they feel like they
say they feel like their man trapped in a woman's body vice versa that they they can often end
up getting surgery take hormones make lifestyle changes everything else and then they find out
they're just as unhappy perhaps even unhappy enough they might harm themselves which is
really disturbing I like to see people like that get some help but I get the feeling that giving them
surgery and drugs this is not the answer that that's going to solve the problem masha cars with
him more harm and he really learned that their them from the and UK Guardian published one
the few years back evasive be regret Ravens about 20% and the share of many people are
distress for the point of committed suicide after changing conditions idea of finch better about
people feeling better after surgery Yeah that might be true for the first one to 3 years but then
what I call the hangover said them and somewhere between 3 and 15 years had one today right
need 20 years after but common time period somewhere between 5 and 15 years regrets at
them and they want help to be transition or a gift I feel totally lost an abandoned by the idea
that they could change agenda when you really can't I mean all you can do it's a cosmetic
procedure and I know because I lived for 3 years and and it actually when you realized the
mistake I made you realize how insane you where do we won't expand on that you would do it
for 8 years know what happened yet so it I started out as but today they would call it
transported for years old families cross dressing was a firm my my grandmother and my me say
any time I dope firms for fiver 6 show generator 10 year-old kid and opposite gender I'm here
to tell me it's a child abuse don't do it they're gonna have the kids you're gonna grow up
confused depressed anxious and yet they may go through a gender change but then we know
that there are 18 times more likely also after they changed Sanders to take their own life
155

without the total despair and we know that according to The UK Guardian steady 20% of them I
regret having done it and I know I had attempted suicide so it this is not a good thing this is just
a total madness that a doctor even now back in 1979 yard Chiller said homosexual activists in
and criminologist work with 500 people and would change genders first six-year period of time
and it had secured he came out and said I'm stopping those because there's too much
unhappiness and committing suicide after changing genders healing church one of the big
connection new York his name is Dr Charles though elon felt was an endocrinologist he said I'm
going to become a psychiatric got here so that can help these people because that's what they
made up the arm you know wall one of the disconnect I've seen on this whole issue is you call
that a lot of States have now made it illegal to do any kind of psychological counseling if parents
coming and said my son or daughter is is gay I wantou to counsel them back to Hadera sexuality
and their States literally made that illegal and yet if somebody walks in and says my son or
daughter believes that he is the opposite sex they actualy it there seems to be a move by most
of the government of the state level to actually encourage people to do this and certainly not to
outlaw that kind of counseling and yet and yet to some extent it seems like two sides of the
same coin somebody says I'm confused about my gender I'm confused about bisexuality since
the to do go together but they're not exactly the same but they do go together how can you
make it how can you say one hand we're going to make it illegal to counsel people a to two
different kind of sexual preference but it's completely legal to counsel them toward gender
change including sometimes irreversible for a physical changes through surgery and drugs well
you know the thing should be individual actually got in to a good sound effective counsel may
find out that there's a choker and from body the smaller field or dissociative disorder bipolar
disorder they have some other issues in their life maybe day I find that the people that I work
with nearly 50% of my sexually abusing children and so the idea of withholding combination of
the Jones there be issues further abuse and answer them White and many hundreds of people
that worked with over the last 10 years 90% of them not homosexual if not an issue of sexuality
feature people who don't like the body there and it's not about him wanting to sexually be
attracted to the same gender and switch if it chooses of not liking who they are the body there
and that's called body the smart idea and so the idea of treating these mental disorders with
hormones and shared dream is why I he played every good it is so high it's why so many people
committing suicide and that's why I I might increase in my website from people asking for help
just gone absolutely out one name the website again if you don't mind wall and we'll put it up
on our side as well sticks change regret that come one of the great books you can read all the
data trans wife survivors season the people who went through it and your mind there's a lot of
research a lot of bad and they're good parents teachers to anyone who knows somebody you're
just interested you get a book Tran find survivors my new book this year old can you imagine
what would happen to somebody in the psychological business and counseling business if they
came out to their professional colleagues and said I'm going to help counsel people against
Transgender surgery and trans gender hormone I can imagine they'd be in in many places in
America they be shot out of the room one night well in many places to lose their life and I will
be shattered the rumors are rife and scorned Here's the thing that's really interesting that
people would contact me often times I guess we try to find out what caused them to feel like
they needed to change genders well you got to check out the website to one more time all
because I know America a lot of e-mails on a change I regret that comment that story the book
156

available with the book America great website Ashley very one of BP's the daily signal which
tribe I read regularly checked out as well wall thank you very much.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Nov 29, 2019 • 8:58 PM

B_NOV_OREG_208

a violent murder-suicide has a lot of people asking could more have been done. brand new
information about what the victim said about her husband before he killed her. >> a man
beaten with a handgun and robbed. the suspects are on the run. how they reportedly lured the
victim into seclusion. >> a disturbing random attack caught on camera. yet another assault
outside a building dedicated to law and order. why some say the suspect should already have
been behind bars. >> we have reached a crisis point. >> a community mourning together a
decade after an unthinkable crime. four cops killed inside a pacific northwest cafe. >> just an
awful day that you don't forget. >> how the community is making sure everyone knows the
officers may be gone but not forgotten.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Nov 29, 2019 • 2:05 PM

B_NOV_WASH_113

welcome back to the lars larson show pleasure to be with you don't get back your phone calls
and emails but I got our law enforcement go to guy bernie Jews to joining me now bernie
welcome to the program thanks very much for taking the time today them bernie you was a
police chief was account an elected County Sheriff so he's actually done in both kinds of law
enforcement is not corrupt because he never went to work the fbi ahead get my shot of the fbi
because I just I'm so disappointed that agency I ask you something 9th I started this hour by
relating the story of a woman who broke up with her boyfriend was scared to death of them
got a restraining order and the sheriff's Department made one attempt to serve it and then said
sorry we can't find him and that was that she was scared to death for the next 5 months until
the the ex-boyfriend put a bullet in her and killed her and then killed himself but the part that
outraged me was this bernie and I know this is more the prosecution and the police and but
they caught the guy who sold Old the boyfriend a gun holding a rifle he I don't know whether
he knew the day I die I had a petty criminal background but he did I do know that the guy who
sold the gun was a federal firearms licensees we knew the rules and he said they caught him
and saying and writing Peter attacks are an email I will sell you a gun off the books now bernie I
only know one reason for somebody who they want to buy a gun off the books it's because you
have stuff for on the books that would keep you from buying one otherwise who cares and so
they catch this guy dead to rights and say you sold a man a gun off the books without a
background check without doing paperwork annual offered to do it so that was off the books
and we're going to send you to jail they also kind of a controlled substance they sent him to jail
4 holes 60 days bernie I want your perspective on why it is that with all these people screaming
for new gun laws we don't drop the gun drop the hammer on people who break the law like
this especially where he sold the gun to a bad guy any kills somebody with a you think data sent
away for a good long time he gets 60 days in jail yellers fun having me good I may ask a
question of truces federal system charged prosecution so on aid actually I thought I got the
157

impression it was local because they they got him Let's see he was sentenced in Marion County
to 60 days in jail for improperly transferring a firearm they make it sound like some tactical
violation and delivery of a controlled substance so these drug dealing gun dealing with breaking
the long guy and he gets an amount of time in jail that seems like like nothing it's like it's like a
light have I guess so Yeah I think the best way to start a reddish Mars is a member of the police
I asked to sort of you know we all do it makes it makes the case face the wall face so for
gumption amazement players goes through prosecution cohorts were roast we have some
police while they may have some input in terms of the new olympic sport Doug is important
because they control with the dm for Prime time Ashley it's 50 user responsibility to should
tone or that kind of prosecution we talk about the judge's well judges do not have to take her
condition for district attorney they can do anything they want judges to circuit judges often do
think that's not enough for us play again premium of different deal the Tori group court.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 30, 2019 • 7:40 AM

B_NOV_WASH_114

comes out on and lives of 3 in pop music nerds reeling from the desert to paper upstairs within
just the past couple of months J.J. Henry also known as Sully took her life in October this past
Sunday ago Hara boss was found dead in her home from what police called a suicide Jenny
gibson is a PhD student at University of Chicago she writes about a career in politics and social
issues for publications include the diplomat the foreign policy joins us from the be easy in
Chicago thanks so much for being with us now thank you for having me fuels written for npr
what was the reaction public outpouring been like it's been really hard couple of months foror
you know obviously the fans family of these two stars who lost far too young then of course the
fans as well you know as you said people are reeling kind of not sure what to do Max you know
how to make something and so that this doesn't happen again what is it that you think might be
at some point contributing to suicides I think it's really important to remember that Cape as
with any entertainment industry is reflective of the culture obviously K-pop stars are under
enormous pressure having to be on at all moments of the day so Yes there's that added stress
for sure but there are certain systematic and societal issues that are definitely at play here
mental health and stigmatization of getting help for mental health issues as well as the extra
scrutiny that female stars and and women in general and South korea are facing 12 the
understand that if you can sure one of the main things that's experts said is necessary is to get
rid of stigmatization and a of getting help for depression anxiety for these issues that are
genuine medical problems that are not necessarily recognize as that in Korea but also around
the world so career does have the highest suicide rate among advanced countries and that goes
for young people as well they actually have a very high elderly suicide way as well and and
relentless scrutiny of being the K-pop stars and I know that we have our allergies and in
American popular culture but these are a bunch of stars that are under constant scrutiny I just
don't mean in public but I mean they share their private moments on platforms that's definitely
true I think especially with the advent of of course social media we have YouTube but there's
also some platforms that are used especially by K-pop stars to kind of show their often moment
sort of quote unquote of moments which fans love him it's really great to see all these different
sides of your favorite stars but it does create a situation in which they don't really have those
158

private moment sor it's really hard to take a break to I wonder if in addition to almost
unprecedented adulation there's a there's an further Cape upstairs also vulnerable to blame
absolutely that is a really huge issue that came up especially in the case of Sully before her
unfortunate death she actually was on a TV show she was starting at noon TV show is part one
of the hosts one of the panelists and the entire point of the TV show was kind of like that I
mean tweets segments on the jimmy kimmel us for that entire show was seeing people reading
these mean comments and having the guest come onto kind of reclaim their reputation and she
was talking about on the show about how you know she just wants to live her life and not be
scrutinized for just doing things better for her and her personality and so after her death a lot
of people going back to the show and saying this cyber bullying has to stop even recognizing
that The society as a whole might figure and what happened is there any kind of push and the
K-pop music and celebrity industry and against their combined to move to take care of their
starters a little bit better absolutely I think one of the biggest pushes is to tackle some of the
online hatred and cyber bullying so for example I think it was just yesterday that an Association
that represents us singers in korea official lee released a Press release asking for the biggest
platform the biggest online portal site in Korea to remove comment sections from
entertainment news stories because they're not productive and there are places where there is
hatred gets spread and starts spiraling there's also pushes from the government side as well as
competition from fans to Institute real ID laws so you have to log in with some sort of you know
actual whether a social security number or whatever and ordered to post comments that if you
are engaging and harassment police could actually see who you are as far as cutting down on
the amount of work and the amount of scrutiny I think that's going to be a lot harder but I do
think there has been a little bit of a good clash you see it Yes for example which is seen by far
the largest and most popular group at the end of this summer they came out they said we're
going to take a couple weeks off that was really great especially seeing one of these big groups
leading the way and hopefully we'll see more of that as well grin study writer Jenny gibson
thanks so much for being with us.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Nov 30, 2019 • 4:19 PM

B_NOV_WASH_115

Yeah exactly I mean the singing moments especially these pop songs the get slowdown like
lullabies limitations maybe perhaps giving you a cheese the of the 80s part is part of my
autobiography you know this song I loved in its most certainly put on mixtapes when I was a
teenager so I get to inject this film some auto biography but and a song like our lips are sealed
which is an infectious pop song you know you're rolling down the windows and singing to it but
and the rearrangement as it exists in lives since QE and it's really a song about solidarity and
empowerment so all when people come on I like to ask them who their creative influences are
and you told us in advance that one of yours is David Lynch which made total sense becoming
more how you connect to rejoice to to Lynch's work I saw on a blue velvet when it first cannot
which is great we're 1986 movie with Dennis Hopper and Bollerer Swinney and kyle
McLAUGHLIN and Laura Dern sneak into a permanent you crazy can she possibly involved in our
his skin creams know I just I don't I have a plan to think the work for the very wealthy I do I do I
need to paul exactly I mean there Something really special about the idea he presented guy at
159

small-town America held the port holes to the 4th dimension and his he pays attention to go to
art direction in and really extraordinary way he was an art school kid as well so caller and
texture are deeply important to him I certainly think my 8 films have a more diverse there's
more diversity in my small town and I think I'd tryry to bring the kind of feminist or even sort of
feminine sensibility to my films I'm not so sure he's he's all that interested in another big
influence on your list is ling ramsey us our trekker whose only movie I've seen I think we need
to talk about kevin were Tilda Swinton but the move on your list is more on caller bridge which
came out in 2002 what is more one caller and why do you like some of the more cholera based
on what I believe a short story it's essential character a woman who not spoiling anything that
happens right beginning whose whose boyfriend has killed himself and then it in the entire rest
of the film kirk both confusion over his death and her grief and her response her coping
response to the trauma is so unexpected and so remarkable many States a Recon if you
wouldn't be here and night is control and kind in making the same kind of a she is a female
character who so resistant and times so unlikable she's very difficult woman and booth it
cinematically and in real life I'm completely drawn to differ called complicated women and
more from callers is really astonishing you know character portrait a woman in crisis but it's
deeply unexpected there's no moment where she falls to her knees whaling you know it as so
many you know sort of grieving women do and films of another of the filmmakers on your list is
the Belgian director Chuck todd Foreman and in particular want her early films from 5 called
John Diehl my arm and then an address in French in Brussels so I'm not going to pretend to
pronounce mom it is an extremely dead and portrait of of the domestic life of a woman right
man she's like shape she really is like the original goal difficulties resistant mother and that's a
film I saw very early on and it and it was just astonished by way the pacing for instance you
know that the meat we have seen a tight race site and tried kind of pay on edge to and inis skin
mine is quite different I a character you see her making me over and it's not just like for the 30
seconds is he knows they're making a meal out yet in real time it's extraordinary I mean
imagine that having to talk to explain to your producers they need to use that entire something
like 3 and a half minute real time shot of her making meatloaf so meticulous with the sound of
the need it's beautiful visceral seen with so much pace us and the sense of tension that's builtup through that pacing and through these daily Im domestic activities in similar ways Lynne
Ramsay's war caller it's this very and Tense very specific kind of portrait study a of a woman
unraveling really and it's so unexpected your own last influence we have a pair is not a movie or
a movie maker it's it's CNN and find our photographer Francesca Woodman I saw her work for
the first time name when I was in high school which was a long time after she had died and
those beautiful full quivering self portrait of a woman those two willing herself into space and
disappearing into the space vibrating in her environment or by brittain her environment they
were just astonishing I've never seen a self-portrait her Lake Chad and it didn't take much
research after seeing the first image to understand that she had many years prior to the first
time seeing any for photographs had killed herself at the age of 22 which like me you know so
realizing that you have this very young woman who made these extremely powerful impact full
self-portraits and very short period of time potentially all this kind of language leading up to her
suicide it is so those photographs are like a long term visual suicide note and it just keeps
people play there black and White there are a kind of degraded our messed-up rooms and
backgrounds and she's often need to I hear you and as you just said it's almost like they're still
160

from the film that would end with her death by her own hand Yes absolutely she used this kind
of large-format camera she used these long exposures so her image and the image of the other
female models in the photographs often blurred because they're moving to me she made the
kind of ghost lead images but she she is a ghost and so you know when I was making knives and
skin I want to make a feminist film that had a missing girl at its center said the troop so many
horror films as the missing girl or the dead girl and that's a problem for a feminist filmmaker but
I wanted to take on and vats as an endless him or her an icon this kind of body of of the girl and
so I fought alive and looked back over all live Francesca Woodman worked really kind of call
Lyin the spirit of those photographs and way we talked about your work and your aspirations in
this film could lead listeners but votes that's going to be a bomber but in fact I I finished the film
thinking Oh O it I would say a happy ending but kind of absolutely I didn't want to make a film
the has So Much darkness ended and leave an audience with no hope there's hope that the end
and understanding that coming of age a lifelong process and there's never no one is beyond
redemption and there's a time there's there's there's a time and place for everyone to make
mistakes and learn from those mistakes and move on from those mistakes so everyone in this
film has made a mistake has confronted burden and we understand that that even the most
problematic of the character in this film has turned a corner to make their life more stable
more meaningful life a generator for a pleasure arguing I really wish that luck with the phone
occurred was really great talking T thank you so much for taking time jennifer leader's latest
film is called lives and skin it's in select theaters and its screening as well.

161

