B_SEP_WASH_1

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 2 • 12:45 PM
labor day special from the polls at WH Y Y in Philadelphia I might can Scott and were exploring
the science that's changing how we work there's a lot of research on the importance of
employment for people with mental illnesses having a job means having a structure and it can
be meaningful it makes people feel less isolated but keeping a job when you're struggling with
severe depression or anxiety is a whole other story should to be honest about what's going on
it how do you take time off for therapy William Voss the understanding in a recent survey by
the American psychological Association most people said their employers don't offer enough
resources to support mental health needs but that culture may be changing a lot according
reports for as long as she can remember Alan Parker has always been anxious even as a kid I
college she wasn't sure she survive life I had a multiple school notebooks that had half-finished
suicide notes and them back I ain't I'm a little bit shocked that I made it through room along the
way she was diagnosed with severe depression she did graduate with a computer science
degree from Michigan State in 2013 and right after that she landed a job that the Soffer
company a lark has an office in Ann Arbor it gave me a new life I was so happy to have this job I
was so happy to feel valued right away things work rates but then that they weren't her
depression that stopped working that johnson calling in sick to get the specifics of why I'm a
secret I mean this is this something you normally talk about it work and the way it presents
makes me look like either I'm lazy or I don't care I got my job
and so I D was putting all of this pressure on myself and absolutely crushed me after a lot of
back-and-forth man decided to tell her supervisor what was really going on response floor her
he said I wonder who else feels like it's we should make sure that they know that it's okay to
take care of themselves and to take time off for that's what was it like to hear that I was
absolutely blown away because I was prepared for where you might be fired word got out to
the CEO then con ultimate he called them up and San Francisco I do and it's never land about a I
just feel her ballot will ver what you were gone through a feeling that anxiety did it just sort of
pains me to think about P all working a play for those what that feel like they have to do I did
unexpected who they are then says the reality is mental illness is common he used it as no
different than one worker has the physical health conditions like the flu or diabetes I think part
of the reason and mental help heal with something different from the flu those who never
really talked about it a lot but Ben's response isn't just about being a good guy a doctor I Her
Evans head of the American psychological Association says research has found that creating a
work environment that supports people who have mental illnesses is actually good for business
employee jurors who have initiatives that recognize that their employees' well-being it is
important to have much better employee outcomes like job satisfaction the ability to do your
job or all and he says this isn't necessarily a huge resource left it's about changing the culture
but it really requires is the support of senior management he says buses to recognize workplace
stressors help reduce them like by allowing more flexible time offered told community tend to
1

have more productive employees but for a lot of people that's just not a reality and it certainly
wasn't for destiny Campanella not as I supervisors bosses are anybody has ever understanding
that my mental illness they just believed in I guess tough-love you would call it pushing me
destinies 27 and was in Philadelphia I'm just severe depression and PTSD from an abusive
relationship she works as an advocate for people with mental illnesses before that she jabs at a
restaurant at daycare places that tend to have fewer worker benefits she says she really
struggle to get accommodations for things like therapy appointments I thought so
misunderstood they made me feel worse I thought am I ever going to be out wouldn't call them
a job destiny says she barely made it through them but she also learned some important
lessons like that self care is not selfish she found creative ways to make time for herself some
news somebody will lock myself in that bathroom and just say I need them but there are
protections that are supposed to be in place for employees people can request what's called a
reasonable accommodation us Schatz's policy director at the mental health partnership in
Philadelphia she worries that mental health discrimination still an issue and not a lot of people
may not be aware of protections like the family medical leave Act or that legally they have a
right to request certain things on the job so if you're taking a medication that make you feel
drowsy you're on you might be able to flex schedule to comment at a later time as format like
michigan she still has a lot of ups and downs that bleed into work for depression and anxiety in
happen magically Conaway got just last week I was in the middle of a meeting and I was getting
close to having a panic attack I was able to excuse myself and say Hey I am feeling really
anxious I need to go for a walk and no one not two not and putin and an earlier this summer
when things got real Graf she sent this seem said don't I said Hey team and taking today and
tomorrow to focus on mental health hopefully I'll be back next week refreshed and back to
100%
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 2 • 1:12 PM

B_SEP_WASH_2

after that world war two thing was that I am so what chicks right there great right dede sam
well this was a check the young lady was like Yeah I just below the surface like Yeah I would go
over this way now I thought Yeah not meant to be so this turned into the slowest 15 minutes of
radio and everything that the moon is moving along from bumper shoot to and attempted
suicide along I-5 of but in this case a the would-be jumper found out that the people around
him cared a lot more than they thought he they get there how much television with brian of El
Deeb and Lee Ann McPherson to individuals who stopped to help me they said it is not going to
die on our we were meant to be there we're meant to say this person my thought was I just
whatever we had to do to get him off that ledge and I am one of the individuals who helped
save the man said that he was he was really close to jump and by the time I thought he
wouldn't put his knee up through the railing and his foot on the concrete nothing about how
close the says he grabbed somebody and they fling themselves it's enough for a while he got a
call mouth or the caring qualities of these individual stock help this guy but because there's a
real danger you know that much weight falling a but this time the guy was on the outside the
railing and have won here and here and many have the other hand was up here if he did if he
falls not a lot of weight pulling you toward falling yourself so brian I'll be here interview from a
2

television points out that he saw this unfolding he was he was at he was getting on the freeway
and he backed up struck on the were on the right I stop what I'm doing and I put it in reverse
and reversed all the way back on the on-ramp game polls trending all the way towards us that
and at that time I just came in a bear hug him and brought him glory and everybody else to
start helping me and all these people are grabbing the person stopping him from committing
suicide and telling I was like nobody cares and I'm like everybody cares menu killing yourself
you're going to kill everybody that's here right now and that the promised that he would feel
okay I told you that we cared about him that's why we give these kids so you know again
there's this is one of those stories that illustrate what I think society is really like and how we
see things like the mass shooting happened in texas people and what's wrong with society here
I think that that doesn't illustrates something about society illustrates something about a
deranged individual like a serial killer doesn't it tell us something about society as much as it
does about an individual I'm more streak killer like that this society I think is much more likely
to do things like this where they see someone hopeless a fuels despondent he feels loved and
cared for and then step up and show that that the caring does exist and that people want a
complete stranger they're willing to risk their own lives to make sure that that survives I'm
shameless puns for tomorrow we're actually talking to brian on the shelf that don't do it today
because it's a holiday and it goes he reacts first it but I don't like to but it's it's a great story.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 2 • 1:53 PM

B_SEP_WASH_3

Columbine tragedy happened law I think we learned some things and I think brands would you
leave the some people have I have kind of follow a better life I think one thing that we have
learned what you're talking about and that is having somebody who could quickly respond
there and after think you know these people in their war mine one going get attention they
want to commit suicide but they want to commit suicide in a way that people are even know
they were here and they know the more people they kill more media attention they're going to
get what you pick something like Adam Lanza and the Sandy Hook shooting he had done what
police describe as the Doctorow dissertation he would look at both spent two and a half years
of planning and compare you put together reporter and that look the mass public shooting
around the world over the last 40 years and had gotten information on all sorts of things one I
think he looked that with the amount of media stories that run each.
KXLY (ABC)
Sep 2 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_4

two local parents.... united in their grief ....hope the public will join them this saturday ...to the
out of the darkness walk in liberty lake. the event raises awareness about suicide prevention....
our caroline flynn sat down with them as they worked through the holiday to get ready.
caroline flynn llintro24:30 on saturday, this park will be filled with over one thousand people,
looking to raise awareness about suicide and funds to help prevent it. 9one person you'll find at
the walk is phillip tyler.nearly two years ago this spokane dad lost his 22-year old son to
suicide.time has not made it easier. but friendships with parents who've been though the same
3

tragedy have helped.he spent this labor day with christie mckee, a spokane mom who lost her
only son to suicide.christie mckeemother & chairperson for afsp spokane 44:52 i don't want any
parent to go through what phil and i went through. 245:17 now i look back on my life and i see
the signs and so my mission is to get those items out and talk about it in public so people can
understand if there is someone who is suffering, they know what to do. 10this year they hope t
o raise 50 thousand dollars for the american foundation for suicide prevention.... their goal is to
reduce the rate of suicide in the u-s by 20 percent by 2025 through education and prevention
awareness.mental health experts, support groups and other resources will be at the walk
saturday morning.for more information and to get registered, visit our website kxly dot com.in
liberty lake, caroline flynn 4 news now.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 2 • 5:41 PM

B_SEP_WASH_5

these five strangers are being hailed as heroes as they together to prevent a man from jumping
off interstate or zero five. these good samaritans rushed to save the man's life on saturday. >>
this man seemed determined, but they were determined as well. it appears he meant to jump
off this overpass, right down onto interstate 405 below. >> he had his leg here and his foot on
the concrete. >> they showed us what they saw. he took this picture of the man went over to
join stranger who is trying to stop him from jumping. >> he had his hand here and his other
hand here and he pushed back. >> brian joined them. >> he was leaning over and it was already
like this i came over and just bear hugged him and pulled him over. >> he was right over these
lane and if he would have let go, he would have fallen onto the freeway. >> they held him until
officers arrived. i felt so much. this was life or death. >> tweeted the photo out as a waofseeing
thank you. >> he kept saying nobody cares about me. i said if nobody cared about you, we
wouldn't be here right now. >> i feel really badly for this guy i hope he gets the help that he
needs. >> they tell us they cried. brian says he learned lifesaving skills as a wrestler. 129-yearold and those five nd strangers his life. >> if you or someone you know needs help, there is
always someone available to talk. you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline.
there is also a crisis text line, just text talk to 741741.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 2 • 6:35 PM

B_SEP_OREG_1

police are praising a group of five men in Washington for jumping into action to save a
complete stranger who was about to jump off a bridge this weekend just north of seattle. one
of the men says he was about to get on the freeway when he saw a man standing on the of an
overpass. he reversed his truck on the on ramp and ran over to help. that's when four other
men joined him. >> i reached over for him and i was like up on here and i reached over for him
and i bear hugged him and i dragged him down here. i grabbed his head and i put it on my chest
and he started crying and i was like just let it out man. let it out. let it out. >> the man told them
he was homeless and had just broken up with his girlfriend. the group held and comforted him
until police arrived. if you know someone who needs help, you can call the national suicide
prevention hotline 24 hours a day. that number is on your screen, 1-800-273-8255.
4

KXLY (ABC)
Sep 2 • 6:37 PM

B_SEP_WASH_6

September is suicide prevention awareness month .... a sad reality is that suicide rates keep
rising on both a national level and right here in spokane, especially amongst men. this weekend,
a walk will take place in liberty lake, called the out of darkness walk.... today our caroline flynn
sat down exclusively with two parents affected by suicide... --who will stop at nothing to
continue to raise awareness. caroline ll intro21:57 organizers of the out of darkness walk
spokane have a big goal this year. to raise $50,000 for the american foundation for suicide
prevention. it's to help reach an even greater goal; to reduce the suicide rate in the united
states by 20% by 2025.19 come saturday this park will be filled with people.looking to raise
awareness about suicide prevention.one person who won't miss it is phillip tyler.phillip
tylerfather29:47 why did you say "let's meet on your front porch?" because that's where my
son devon and i would meet normally. he'd stop by with a six pack or a dozen chocolate chip
cookies for his father. 11nearly two years ago, he lost devon to suicide.phillip tylerfather 30:13
he was 22 years old. brilliant, prophetic, wise beyond his years. just a caring, loving young man.
10a guiding light through his profound sadness have been other members of our community
who have felt the same loss. christie mckeemother & chairperson for afsp spokane 43:17 sorry.
it's hard. it's been five years but it's one thing you'll never get over, talking about him. um.... he
was my only child. 8christie mckee's son taylor was 20.a straight-a student, who had dreams of
being a lawyer. christie mckeemother & chairperson for afsp spokane 43:35 your life changes
forever. 1phil and christie now have a bond no parent expects or wants to have. through their
grief and drive ...they continue to share their stories.christie mckee mother & chairperson for
afsp spokane44:52 i don't want any parent to go through what phil and i went through. 2phillip
tylerfather33:40 if you get included in this tragic club, i think it's our responsibility as parents, as
suicide loss survivors to talk about it. 7from fundraising for easier access to prevention
resources.
News Radio KEX
Sep 2 • 6:42 PM

B_SEP_OREG_2

Donald Trump is if you have a discussion about peace and how americans to come together not
only talk about mass shootings talk about the reality of gun violence the United States today
and the stories that are not on TV in fact that you know two-thirds gun that's happened in rural
and suburban areas that are predominantly guns she assigns Let's talk about that could have an
actual conversation about mental health we're not continuously stigmatize have a conversation
about why in United States analyst every community it is easier to access a gun two and your
own pain and it is to go any access to affordable quality therapist you're right Qatar also just
put out there that he left pretending that suicide by gun is now a problem they care deeply
about he might do and people yelling at cops just last was last weekend to kill themselves so
that's keep that in mind that's what that's what really feels about law enforcement suicide but
5

To say they care so much about the suicide epidemic in this country the left there's also the
political party that believes overwhelmingly in physician assisted suicide so I think you should
be able to take her own life their objection it seems to me to be the means by which one takes
their own life not that we just don't want people taking the wrong box I have much more
respect they're saying we have a suicide epidemic we take care of that across the board and
every life is precious including the unborn and every life should be protected by the state that's
not what they said other worried about the suicide epidemic in this country from guns I worry
about other than the rest of it is not really a conversation we have that I think about how much
attention the mainstream media really gives to the opioid epidemic which killed over 70000
people here when was ask yourself is for all of the media gnashing of teeth and Oh my gosh and
guns guns guns all this stuff you've seen in the last 90 days.
News Radio KEX
Sep 3 • 7:23 PM

B_SEP_OREG_3

I think that the preset who am I use radio we love my view jd vance where we go from here
well we can all be fired by the rhetoric because there's a campaign going on we all talk about
how much money the NRA gives you are you kidding me really we really are living in this
cartoon world we're being the ACA me and you know says instead of back mean NRA because
that's that's the kind of world we're living in now we've boiled everything down to cartoons
you're either the coyote the road runner and the NRA is is the bomb with that has refused it
never goes off unless he goes off the face of the coyote it's the yet unveiled its the box birdseed
to Let's start here people say he was struggling with the suicide of his sister you have said citing
family didn't know anybody who's committed suicide I do one was my mother the other was
my brother in law and I don't understand either he never come to terms With a loved one I
imagine losing imagine losing younger sister now imagine losing a sister and you have no family
or friends network you are alone that you're isolated here you're living in Hey and living in it all
with factory with broken windows you have nothing no one that I hadn't you have a long
history of mental illness are reminded of this and where can I touring for peace where can I find
some solace I know that song and I know where I was when I first heard you heard that song
because I was feeling that way and feeling very alone and I realized that I wasn't that God had
this he doesn't have a friend I don't think he understood God and our politicians are arguing no
one's sense you're listening back.
KONG-SEA
Sep 3 • 11:30 AM

B_SEP_WASH_7

justin bieber is opening up about drug use and being a child start and thoughts of suicide and
he shared this long post talking about everyday stresses and having everything done for him. he
says i was 18 with no skills with millions of dollars in excess and by 20 i made every bad decision
you could have thought of and went from one of the most adored people to the most ridiculed.
i became resentful and disrespectful of women and we lost our own sam shocker. angry. i read
beavers thing and i saw this post and i think this, i don't know if he's reaching out for help. i
know he's getting help and therapy but i think he's using this as an outlet for kids of feel the
6

same way. he is taken this roller coaster. i felt bad for him to have all that fame thrown at you
and now he is seeing that in the best thing is his eyes are open. >> is he being relatable and i
don't think the point is that he's being relatable or not but the idea idea, he does something we
have to face. how we grow up based on how people wanted us to be and who we are in for so
long he has been trying to be what everyone wanted and needed for him and now he is saying
this is my this is my most authentic self. love me or hate me and this is my testimony to get me
free of this. not the idea that everyone can understand what he's going through. >> and we
need to respect addiction. i don't think we do. >> and you have access to the best doctors you
can get dr. drew to show up then you are fine and if you have endless wealth you are finding
clearly you are not and when you have an addiction to anything shopping, or drugs it's for the
whether it's gambling, rest of your life and we will see him like we see most addicts relapse. it's
important for people to see that that you can relapse. most people do. him being so forthright
>> it's a big deal and courageous >> i know you have always been a fan. we are live and i had a
cough attack. you have always been a fan of his and i am becoming more and more of how
transparent he is. do you remember when you were 25? it just goes to show the work he's
done on himself and at 25 to be the self-aware is rare for anybody considering what he's gone
through. >> good for the beads. >> are you wearing your soc today? >> not today. >> he heads
beaver socks.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Sep 3 • 3:13 PM

B_SEP_WASH_8

the people on the computer are asking is it too late for justin bieber to say, i'm sorry, get it,
wink wink? the singer was in a contemn playtive mood, monday, wasn't he, carlos? >> he
actually posted on instagram about what his life's journey has really been like including suicidal
thoughts and heavy drug use and disrespecting women. i went from a 13-year-old boy from a
small town to being praised from millions left and right and how much they loved me and how
great i was and i had no skills in the real world with millions of dollars and access to whatever i
wanted. this is a scary concept for everyone. i started doing heavy drugs at 18 and became
disrespectful. i remember he was angry. he was at malls with tons of female fans mobbing him.
there were teenage fans fainting him. i remember interviewing him when he launched his
fragrance at macy's, you could not get to justin beener because there were so many fans and
talked about doing drugs when he was 19 years old, around the time he had legal issues in
miami and the egging and a rumor he would potentially be deported. >> i think it could be easy
for some people to say, oh, poor rich kid, poor famous kid. i really applaud justin bieber for
speaking up like this. it's not a normal upbringing. at 13 years old he was launched into
superstardom. he is right he had no rel life skills, a crazy way to live. and i think it's very
important he's speaking up about mental health, especially now this generation that grew up in
the world of social media, it's really important to have role models who say you can speak
about your mental health and you don't have to be ashamed about it. >> here's what else he
said, i feel i can never turn it around. it's taken me years to fix broken relationship decisions and
habits and he praises god's blessings for helping him get a good support. through his marria
haley baldwin he is learning, trust, patience, kindness, humility and all the things it takes to be a
good man. >> i love that. i hope it works out for him. i think he's a good young man. >> it's
7

never too late. >> say i'm sorry. >> never too late to continue to repair yourself. i love he's
being candid about it. remember, this is not the first time bieber has spoken up about his battle
with depression. in 2015 he was promoting his album, "purpose," i want people to know i'm
human and struggling to get through the days. >> it is cool to see a celebrity being so
transparent. >> absolutely. >>> and the burning man has come to an end and there were a lot
of stars that didn't attend it this year. but paris hilton showed up. she wrote on photos of fire,
love and glam. the only newsmaker to drop down on the desert was d.j. diplo, who arrived from
a plane with popeye's logo on it. allegedly he was holding sandwiches, but we don't know what
was in the bags. popeyes knew i wanted to try their sandwich and they sent me some in a jet.
wendy's, your move. diplo also posted a photo of him trying to catch a cab allegedly. i think he
was goofing there. >> all right. we will be right back.
KONG-SEA
Sep 3 • 7:40 PM

B_SEP_WASH_9

the trial of a woman accusing a friend to kill himself through text messages is now under way.
>> in 2017, a massachusetts judge found then-20-year-old michelle carter guilt of involuntary
manslaughter after encouraging her boyfriend conrad roy to commit suicide three years prior.
>> the question is can you cause someone else to commit suicide? >> she keeps at him, your
honor, at him and at him. >> he was found in a kmart parking lot unconscious due to carbon
monoxide poisoning and his phone was off. >> after finding 18-year-old's conrad's body,
detectives looked through his phone and discovered a single thread of text messages, his final
conversation with michelle. >> texts show that conrad began to have doubt as he made a
suicide attempt, momentarily stepping out of his truck as it filled with carbon monoxide only
to have michelle to persuade him to move forward with the act. >> his death was my fault. i
told him to get back in. >> michelle's defense argued that conrad had intended to commit
suicide for a while, overdosing on acetaminophen, commonly known as tylenol just one year
earlier. >> you and i might sit here and say did he really try? it's acetaminophen. it was a serious
attempt taken seriously by everyone around him. >> the biggest mystery of the story is not why
michelle carter did what she did, but what michelle carter thought she was doing. >> michelle's
own struggles were brought to the attention of the court, as well. >> you spend two minutes
inside the courtroom and you know both of these people, not just one of them, were struggling
in depth with mental health issues. people don't know this. michelle carter was in mclean
hospital, a psychiatric facility prior to what happened and this did not come out of nowhere.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 3 • 5:56 PM

B_SEP_WASH_10

the suicide rate in the United States continues to climb with the rate in 2017 that was 33%
higher than 19 _ninety_ _nine_ 3 3% that's according to new report from the CDC's National
Center for health statistics it's the suicide rate this country is now the highest level since world
war two adult the number to cause of death for americans each hand the 34 which States saw
the highest increase idaho utah North and South Dakota Kansas Vermont new hampshire
Nevada was the only state to see its suicide rate decrease use over the last two decades that's
8

worth pointing out the United States one of the wealthiest countries in the world and we have
now seen life expectancy drop 3 years Hello these are tragic trans but they're solvable as well.
88.5 KNKX
B_SEP_WASH_11
Sep 4 • 4:26 PM
this is a guy who's helicoptered into combat in Afghanistan and Iraq who do he'll feel scary
heels get it because it's similar to the seal teams and there's a significant vetting process goes
into getting parents so when in fact you are actually left the door which was shockingly and you
have to confront the fact that okay us for an innocent and here comes in so truthfully my first
class that is 10 minutes into it it was in our classroom having a discussion seeing is essentially
you know 13 other teenagers and instructor who I am I'm probably the same age maybe older
than my instructor and I thought I really have no business being here but didn't do enough
things progressed I could actually contribute it's just that it's very it's an Ailey organization
amateur hours over Yeah although I was you know you get used to that firm for your opinion
two-plus decades of military service showing up doing work that's that's what I keep telling my
anyways that menu item drop do push-ups if you don't have a problem said until and right no
no push ups and and nobody's really yelling get and that actually is a bit uncomfortable of just
getting yelled APC known to let people know just a little bit more of your story and how you got
here you eat you needed 18 surgeries I read afterward did in that rescue mission and 2009 I
read you talked about you suffer PTSD and drink too much aau took drugs and even
contemplated suicide I'm so happy to talk to you where you are now I also made me wonder
how that informs how you carry yourself on campus as you move around and and what your
classmates might have to learn from you you that's it that's it and I'm really glad you asked that
because base my background either near their asset or liability bringing something to your
families to your community here classmates tier team or your cat take away from it so I am
constantly thinking what kind of brand I think you know people talk about mental health since
you mentioned 18 surgeries that's significant researchers actually spent more time in
psychiatric hospitals I didn't medical costs Charles I think what I feel like I can bring here is that
you know we take care of one another if people talk about mental health resources but thing
that helped me get to the point where I can and you know they're on the phone a few talking
about being fresh was that my friends they were okay and during the discomfort of getting in
my face and saying Hey man you need to get help we don't know how to help you but we can
get you across that bridge to those resources and so at some point if there are people students
or whomever you're having few trolls media can help them across that bridge as well too so I
can keep that the back of my head on crushing through her is trying to figure out he to laughter
bring back bad memories of crushing for her it's it's I mean what you're describing is fascinating
you're saying you got to show people to do the work these are lessons you've learned but you
also have to figure out none of us are going to make this on our own and ask for help only every
day you know that's that's the beauty of the lessons I happens you don't really get anywhere I
get to sit here and talk to you because I just have this many people use the word resilience
that's a very individual trade and inside my kaine disagrees with that I'm here because people
go out and carry that kind of messages I walk around Yeah are living in the dorms I am not living
in dorms because I think you will factly understand it is a 52 year-old guy good or bad about 9
30 I get up really early and then the kids Unfortunately they don't but that schedule soon a
9

small apartment above the garage it's great Yeah so what I said is there a big milestone coming
up next in terms of that I guess you don't even have your eye on the terms gender anything
that could align well there's actually there's we will have a paper due next week my first paper
and hoping that they're okay with me doing a crayon but I doubt that's going to be the case you
must have a laptop mind allied to Haftar right at our level be clothed was she like your paper
and everything else that is for sure does stir fear I am excited I'm on my way to class right now
expend these I really appreciate your time.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 4 • 11:55 PM

B_SEP_WASH_12

if you've got a commitment to doing harm if you're feeling suicidal homicidal start with the
suicide part please can relate sadly but real Hey if you're going to kill anybody kill yourself first
reported killed 20 people Yeah it's not enough to cause chaos they want the convent and aloof
theme prison family members and loved ones of strangers donna word we got final exams I n't
ere any go to amazon the first one question murder one from crime scene the courtroom and
they all and finally campus of Berry won all the leaves on amazon in multiple formats and each
book had several cases in net and Knight chewed the cases no I picked the weirdest strange had
some you know about some me don't and TV shows coming up mayor coming up probably
answer and for campus sometime mind or maybe not no I'm not sure when of Real's the
television network great you got and also ABC 2020 with your full heart and murder-suicide
case Sanchez thank you so much.
88.5 KNKX
Sep 4 • 8:15 AM

B_SEP_WASH_13

A new investigation shows that low-income neighborhoods are hotter than wealthier ones in
dozens of big cities across the country this investigation from npr and the University of
Maryland Howard Center for investigative journalism and shows that he impacts physical health
but also it may have an effect on mental health his MPs nor Eckert in genetic Churchill's
Baltimore rowhouse the air conditioning is blasting she relied on more than usual when a
blistering heat wave swept through baltimore this summer I don't even want to see my power
Bell is this company my but keeping whole isn't just a matter of comfort for her it's a way to
manage her bipolar disorder he is a challenge for me when it comes to my mentor Ohio when I
get too hot it's hard for me to sleep in and when I don't get enough sleep Dad can't trip me over
into mania there are few signs she's entering a manic episode rapid speech irrational purchases
or bouts of anger sometimes her episode spiral more seriously I have at times had suicidal I
aviation not not attempt may just my mind was racing so fast he was out of control he can be a
stressor for most people but Ken Duckworth medical director for the National alliance on
mental illness says people with severe mental illnesses are hit harder than most the
summertime he waves are risk for people with serious mental illnesses like schizophrenia ask
it's affective disorder bipolar one of the main reasons is medication drugs used to manage
severe mental illnesses can have dangerous side effects in the heat like dehydration or heat
stroke they reduced your body's ability to modulate temperature for Andrei Landry ground
10

these side effects hit hard when she was living in california alone particularly hot summer day
she says I got up to 110 degrees she was driving with her kids in the backseat when she started
hallucinating and driven down this Raid and I imagine some people walking and found my God
it was a side effect of the medication she took for PTSD anxiety and bipolar disorder she been
sensitive to medications in the past but he thinks the Heat center over the edge the key witness
make it worse look him in the Senate thanks lori was just that much worse NPR at the
University of Maryland Howard center but the connections between heat and health in
Baltimore the Howard center analyzed emergency response data from the summer Baltimore
crisis response and receives hundreds of calls every day voices their founding executive director
edgar Awakens says of many of their patients experienced mental illness that's usually not the
only health condition they're dealing life if you've got a chronic behavioral health condition
chances are you're not taking care of or managing diabetes we're hyper tension so if you want
to add to that temperatures over 100 degrees with deserve all our population really puts them
at risk Wiggins says 3 out of 4 of their mental health patients also abuse substances and
according to Howard center calls related to substance abuse more than double and extreme
heat factor Duckworth from the National alliance on mental illness says the risks of heat are
only getting more urgent these risks that you need to be mindful of as you contend with you
know what is likely to be an increasing run I'm extremely odd days and while climate change
wasn't a big part of his training in medical school he says it's impossible.
KBNZ
Sep 4 • 7:56 AM

B_SEP_OREG_4

are you having any suicidal thoughts ed suicide today? >> have you ever attempt >> reporter: at
the crisis cent dagg roy, newer in ken a come in all day and all night. york, the calls >> can y safe
place?ou put the knife in a >> reporter: 1,700 calls every >> what did you do with the nail gun?
was given rare access day from veterans on the brink. cbs news the v.a. responders and their
literally life-s to contemplating suicide, so i want to get somebaving conversations. >> right now
you're ody out to you. >> reporter: 20ay in veterans take their lives every d personal
finances,america, 6,000 a year. relationships, and lonelin broken >> and you have to deal with
aless are all factors. ve to deal withl of them. >> we ha them. >> all of responder terrance davis,
a navys he veteran himself, say tries to answer by the second ring. >> what's the stress level for
you?ssful. >> reporter: former sergeant danny >> oh, the stress is -- ah, man. it's highly streng
way from the battlefield, but for him o'neill knows that feeling. santa cruz may be a loand his
pham, sadr city, iraq, is close by. .dangerous place at the time. >> it was hell on earth. it was the
most >> reporter: in 2006 his unit the fighting, lost nine men in their own hands. but back
home, 14 have died at >> tking and doing things they he guys started isolated and drin thought
were helping them cope, suicide. and it led to depression and >> reporter: o'neil who 2012
attempted suicide in described it as today's new with isolation enemy as its accomplice. is
fellow warriors. >> when we're togethit's why he now arranges surfing reunions like this one for
her, we feel >> what is it about the water, do you thi that sense of family and team that we
miss. nk? heard that the >> i've pacific has no memory. for me that's powerful because in and i
don't have to carry it around anymore. can take iraq out there and give it to the oceae.

11

B_SEP_OREG_5

KDRV (ABC)
Sep 4 • 11:53 AM
the jackson county sheriff's office are investigating what they believe is a murder suicide. the
sheriff's office says two people were found dead in their home on monday. the sheriff's office
also says a man asked them to perform a welfare check on the occupants... and that man told
police he could smell an odor from the home. deputies responded to the scene and found the
bodies of shayne cleaveland and his mother robin meinhart. deputies say both of them lived in
the home. now if you or any one you know is having suicidal thoughts... you can find the
number for the national suicide prevention line. you can also send a text to the text line. you
can also find resources on our website k-d-r-v dot com.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 4 • 6:30 PM

B_SEP_WASH_14

today - west richland man - william lee - changed his plea to guilty for the murder of 53-yearold alisa brewer. lee was arrested at the fairway apartments on dec. 9. police say he beat and
strangled a woman to death. when police found brewer - she was beaten and choked. lee called
911 and confessed to brewer's murder... he told the dispatcher he was going to kill himself and
was heard over the phone loading a gun. lee changed his plea in court wednesday morning.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 4 • 7:53 PM

B_SEP_OREG_6

9 hate us only in psychiatric disorders concerns about harm to others typically arise in acutely
psychotic patience with Colonel delusion they convince them to harm others I think I know
that's the criteria I mean this happens but not limited to schizophrenia dementia severe
psychotic depression and psychotic bipolar 0 illnesses this what we see here Here's the thing
okay substance-abuse or substance you for that matter can increase the risk of psychosis okay
nobody talks about that alcohol increases the risk of crime or psychosis methamphetamine a
special way increases the risk of crime or psychosis I alcohol or thes alcohol a of
methamphetamine you know tell it if you have an allergic reaction to chocolate or something
you know Back creating baits psychosis we all this leads to the possibility you can harm others
their personality disorders a impulsiveness and now all that said something that also can trigger
something a lack of remorse anti-social personality problems see the reality is that most people
with personality disorders they don't seek treatment and not known but mental health
providers being a danger it's important to note that those were diagnosed with serious mental
illness those were determined by psychotic the spice Kite is actually the risk of harm to
themselves or others they already get admitted to a few long-term inpatient care and are kept
there until they're deemed not dangerous okay so once again if who most these patients get
long-term inpatient care because they are diagnosed as being dangerous the diagnosed as
being out of control what have you what kind of mental illness are we going to be looking into
12

to try and prevent gun attacks what kind of psychiatric evaluation will be observed or in force
by law enforcement he was among the 1% of the United States population with a diagnosis of
schizophrenia it's rare to find people who are risk of harm to others or risk of acting violently
OK think about that from 1% of the population schizophrenic and in that 1% it's hard to find
somebody who is at risk to harm others or risk of committing violent activity so despite the
widespread belief in prison with serious mental illness like bipolar disorder schizophrenia can
be dangerous only 3% to 4% of all violent acts committed to giving your United States are
committed by people have been diagnosed with commonly cited mental illnesses schizophrenia
bipolar disorder or depression also these conditions rather strongly Associated with increased
risk of suicide iPAD not homicide but suicide further more risk of violence among severely millio
O actually declines in the absence of substance abuse in other words Prevention treatment or
substance-abuse can decrease the risk of violence here in the United States but we don't do
that we ridicule people who are basically taking care of dedicating themselves to things like to
have its work candidacies supposed drug will trigger this type of activity no way in hell will guy
who wants to overdose on cheetos and watch family guy is is going to be a menace to society
while these Stone Rica mortis South Park boy that's those damages going to do is bring the
whole night however alcohol alcohol is a lot of words urging to because they break out in
handcuffs when they drink and nobody says anything about that because we cared America hot
hot mental illness down a Creek that state psychology got attacked the candidates we basically
vilified those we don't agree with mental illness.
KOBI
Sep 4 • 8:24 PM

B_SEP_OREG_7

recapping your top local stories tonight -- a mother and her son were found dead in a central
point home after what investigators believe is a homicide-suicide. police found 44-year-old
shayne cleveland and his mother, 68-year-old robin meinhart dead with gun shot wounds after
a neighbor requested a well-fair check. neighbors say the son had bought his mother the house
years back. recently they had seen foreclosure notices on their door. a note from cleveland was
found by investigators.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 4 • 8:20 AM

B_SEP_WASH_15

…looking at kids each day and seeing if they're doing well have that they're not doing well and
for student is a danger to himself or others that's when the threat assessment process would
begin and Here's what that would look like that would involve two people from the school we
know that student the best as well as people from espn first responders doing real-time theft
by that particular student defeat what needs to happen in terms of providing some support to
that kiddo before tragedy happens be a lot more aware notes among staff and betraying what
specific things to look for work and wonder concerned about a student they can bring up
student to this team and then talk it through and obviously parents would beat be involved and
appropriators well I want to clear this is not about turning it into the cops or anything like that
there's a lot of protections against you we want to profile any specific kid for very think it really
13

about what we talk about so much when we talk about gun violence and Prevention in schools
is the mental health aspect right it's always lacking there's not school counselors in every school
this is an effort to have his umbrella agencies and these 9 districts they will go out trade all of
these let you know smaller districts in that educational Service District and get everyone on that
same page they're also partying with behavior health specialists which within those counties in
those specific areas to have this giant team that can can intercede and bring the parents and
their you will have counselors there and everybody to try to figure out what's going on with it
and then you don't but with the parents help figure out what How they might need to move
forward and avoid a kind of tragedy I like you point out that it's not just the school shootings
that this could prevent there's a high rate of suicide among young people with firearms as well
an accident happened at cover them myself I am Yeah and that's a really big part of the
discussion the suicide Prevention about that next out she's up the threat assessment of person
hired any of these 9 areas the next goal in his upcoming session is to get the funding for the
other special to watch with his suicide Prevention specialist to Zaza goes beyond normal
counseling though he used to guess that every school has somewhat use today's threat
assessment that that implies a threat to others would that include planning finding out whether
the student who caught somebody's attention for some reason whether he's household has
weapons and it didn't go so I'm glad you asked that question because part of what could come
into play on that another new law the just give it that kick in July is that the ex Remus
protection orders in our state can affect miners rights so that can absolutely be part of that
discussion again you're going to get a first responders get the parents and school officials and
their they can have that discussion and because law enforcement can be involved when the
family of course going after those themselves you can then say do we want to look and see if
these parent time and weapons their home that's absolutely something that could be part of
this discussion not to say they're going to come in and take away the parents fans or something
like that but it definitely part of the discussions and what do they mean is there a fraction of
the kids themselves on what to do if they see a suspicious Facebook Post is there's such and
teachers on the Republicans for example were kid in creative writing class decides to write
horror story right and makes references the appeared to include things that the school because
you're right what you know and it sounds like that's something you might want to double him is
it well and you want to be careful restored by that Yeah and that's leave that is the general idea
this is a very wide ranging Bill that could take a few years to implement have a lot to do with
the office of public instruction is going after companies but that is the ultimate goal here is to
also train students to if they see something say something but you know the difference right to
know to not be targeting specific people and and maybe going overboard when it's not required
also there's a school resource officer training involved in this for everyone and that that is a
school resource officer after the same training and that's to make sure they're focused on
getting that trust-building but it other students they will come to them when they have those
kind of concerns and again it's a big team effort here gun-rights activist like to point out that
school shootings are relatively rare on the big scheme of things like him in my view one is too
many and you're not alone there and I I think the latest numbers we have from 2015 from 60 to
130 incidents involving guns in schools in King County and those range of right things whether
someone brought them to campus suicide something like that really quickly I want to point out
there are also other changes at the district level which a single entrance access to schools that
14

are being put in place throughout a variety of districts and that's an ongoing effort so I think
you and I thank God that it is time.
KOBI
B_SEP_OREG_8
Sep 4 • 6:00 PM
Two people were found dead in a central point home monday. detectives investigating say it
appears to be a homicide suicide. the jackson county sheriff's office says it believes the son shot
and killed his mother... before turning the gun on himself. nbc5's anna weeks spoke to the
jackson county sheriff's office and neighbors... anna? craig... kristin... neighbors say they heard
from the mother often and when that communication stopped... they started to worry. after
discovering a foul smell... they called police to check on the situation. the mother and her adult
son were found dead, along with two pets.. a rabbit and cat. it happened on the 32 hundred
block of new ray road in central point. "the deaths have been determined to be a homicide and
a suicide""we encourage anybody who is experiencing a mental health crisis to reach out for
help" the sheriff's office identified them as 44-year-old shayne justin cleaveland and his
mother, 68-year-old robin meinhart. neighbors tell us that, meinhart was a sweet lady, but they
did not have much communication with the son. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text the crisis line at 7-4-1-7-4-1. walk-in
mental health services are also available at 140 south holly street in medford... monday
through friday from 8 to 5.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 4 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_9

two people are dead in an apparent homicide--suicide in central point. thanks for staying with
us, i'm briannnnnn morton. and i'm ashley hall. The sheriff's office says the two people were
found dead in their home on monday. the home is on new ray road in central point. you can see
that area highlighted in red on this map. neighbors requested a welfare check on the two
people when they had not seen or heard from them in several days. there was also an odor
coming from the home. police believe 44-year-old shayne cleaveland shot and killed his mother
robin meinhart before killing himself. two pets were also found dead due to gunshots. if you or
someone you know are experiencing a mental health crisis -- there are resources available.
Jackson county mental health has a 24-hour crisis hotline. the number for that is on your screen
right now. they also offer walk in mental health services. the number for the national suicide
hotline is also on your screen now.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 4 • 6:25 PM

B_SEP_OREG_10

a major school district in our area is making some big changes this year after at least five
students suicide last year. >> deb: take a look at this image. it shows back of a student i.d. from
the salem-keizer school district. so the district also features a suicide prevention hotline
number in english as well as spanish. katu's keaton thomas reports, it's just one of the steps
15

they're taking. >> keaton: you'll remember we featured the salem-keizer school district back in
february after five students in one year took their own lives. students, staff, and the community
all devastated by the losses, we talked to the district's superintendent, christie perry back then.
the deaths weighed heavy on her. >> i sat with one family and i thought, oh, my gosh, could i be
this amazing and resilient when my own child had killed themselves? i don't know. >> keaton:
two students at sprague high school died weeks apart. shortly after these signs went up around
campus. the entire staff got trained in qpr. it teaches them how to handle difficult
conversations and spot subtle warning signs. but perry told us they need more help. then,
months later, organize passed the student success act. schools will get a billion dollars a year
statewide, katu's genevieve reaume talked to perry on katu news this morning about what it
means. >> we're expecting, we don't have final numbers yet, about $35 million a yearth student
success act. i've convened a community task force to begin making plans for those spend churs,
so we don't have plans yet, but one of the things we will be talking about in that task force is
mental health and what are the mental health needs of our students. >> genevieve: would you
say mental health is a priority with the funding? >> mental health is a priority. and we of course
the money comes in four buckets, so we'll bring the mental health needs forward into that task
force to see how they prioritize it as well. >> keaton: schools won't see the money for mental
health until next year. this year is about planning. keaton thomas, katu news. >> steve: no
matter what school your kids go to, the hotlines are easily accessible. experts say it's a good
idea to program one or all these numbers in their phones. they can get peer-to-peer counseling
at oregon youth line, the number, 877-968-8491, or text "teen2teen" to 839-863. there's also
the national lifeline, 1-800-273-talk.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 4 • 5:57 PM

B_SEP_OREG_11

two people are dead in an apparent homicide--suicide in central point. thanks for staying with
us, i'm brian morton. and i'm ashley hall. the sheriff's office says the two people were found
dead in their home on monday. the home is on new ray road in central point. you can see that
area highlighted in red on this map. neighbors requested a welfare check on the two people
when they had not seen or heard from them in several days. there was also an odor coming
from the home. police believe 44-year-old shayne Cleveland shot and killed his mother robin
meinhart before killing himself. two pets were also found dead due to gunshots. if you or
someone you know are experiencing a mental health crisis -- there are resources available.
jackson county mental health has a 24-hour crisis hotline. the number for that is on your screen
right now. they also offer walk in mental health services. the number for the national suicide
hotline is also on your screen now.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 4 • 6:33 AM

B_SEP_WASH_16

the state superintendent this morning is on the phone with us. thank you for joining us on king
5 this morning. are you there? >> good morning. welcome back to school. >> welcome, yeah. a
lot of kids are getting ready. many question, superintendent, a lot of districts settled teacher
16

contracts in time for school but things are unsettled in tukwila. can you tell us anything about
that? >> yes. every year we have a certain number of districts that are negotiating contracts.
this is normal. last year was unusual because the legislature got rid of all the guideposts so
every district last year was up for their bargain. things calmed down significantly. we had two
short strikes so far. tukwila is the last one. i'm confident that they will get things done. around
the state, everyone is going to school and we are excited. parents are wondering what is
happening. a lot of other districts are settled. on the question of school funding, when the state
was found in compliance with the mccleary decision as it relates to school funding, goes how
are they responding with the infusion of cash in year 2. >> a combination of programming. in
many districts they had the opportunity to shore up programming, maybe direct support in the
classroom and in some cases, lots of additional supports for students with disabilities,
counseling, mental health. there is a lot of great opportunity there. in other districts, it's been a
big infusion to get teacher salaries finally to market rate. we were in a desperate shortage in
many parts around the state and we are in certain content areas. it's one of those things that
we have to watch closely. compared to two years ago, we are in great shape. performance
nationally is rising. i noted yesterday we are 5th in the nation in 8th grate math and sixth in the
nation with language arts. we have an awesome state. >> we have been talking a lot about
firearms and gun safety. what can you do to help ease parents -- about making sure that their
child is safe. >> what i remind folks you are in a state with 1.1 million students. they go to
school 180 days out of the year. to be real honest with you, that is 350 million school days if
you will on a per child basis since we had an active shooter and sadly we lost one child in
freeman, washington, a couple of years ago. we are diligent about the safety. every school has
a mandatory safety program. they plan for this stuff. they train for this. evacuation plans. they
perform those. it's a balance between being prepared but it's very, very, very low risk. the
greater risk is mental health and students that die by suicide. we are shoring up the mental
health side of things. we expect physical buildings to be secured. i know it's in the headlines.
extremely low probability. i would rather people think about mental health for our kids. >> all
right, thank you. you have children of our own. appreciate it. thank you.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 4 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_12

a developing story-- the jackson county sheriff's office is investigating a likely murder- suicide.
deputies found a mother and son dead in a home near central point. officer's were called on
monday to do a welfare check on them at a neighbor's request. deputies found 44-year-old
shayne cleaveland and his mother- 68-year-old robin meinhart- dead inside the home. police
believe cleaveland shot his mother and two pets- a rabbit and a cat. he then took his own life.
police found the guns used as well as a note left by Cleveland. there are resources for anyone
going through a mental health crisis. on you screen is the number of the jackson county mental
hotline and the national suicide prevention lifeline. both lines are operated 24- hours. you can
also find these numbers on our website, kdrv.com.

17

KOBI
Sep 5 • 6:01 AM

B_SEP_OREG_13

this morning detectives with the jackson county sheriff's office are continuing thier
investigation into a homicide - suicide. investigators believe a son shot and killed his mother...
before turning the gun on himself. neighbors in central point tell us they hadn't heard from the
mother in a while... and started to worry... they then noticed a foul smell coming from the
home and called police on monday. responding officers say they found a mother and her adult
son were dead, along with two pets.. a rabbit and cat. "the deaths have been determined to be
a homicide and a suicide" "we encourage anybody who is experiencing a mental health crisis to
reach out for help" the sheriff's office identified them as 44-year-old shayne justin Cleveland
and his mother, 68-year-old robin meinhart. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text the crisis line at 7-4-1-7-4-1.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 5 • 6:08 PM

B_SEP_OREG_14

according to mental health America, more than 700 thousand Oregonians reported mental
illness -- making the state with the highest prevalence in the country. but it has the 16th highest
access to mental health care. since September is suicide prevention month...we broke down
some statistics from a recent study that examined the picture of America’s mental health. more
than five- point-three million people in the country with mental illness don't have insurance.
but more than 24 million people with mental illness are going untreated. and almost ten million
people thought about suicide...a 200- thousand person increase from last year.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 5 • 6:05 AM

B_SEP_OREG_15

two people are dead in an apparent homicide-suicide in central point. the sheriff's office says
they were found dead in their home on monday. the home is on new ray road in central point.
you can see that area highlighted in red on this map. neighbors requested a welfare check on
the two people when they had not seen or heard from them in several days. there was also an
odor coming from the home. police believe 44 year old shayne cleaveland shot and killed his
mother robin meinhart before killing himself. two pets were also found dead due to gunshots. if
you or someone you know are experiencing a mental health crisis -- there are resources
available. jackson county mental health has a 24 hour crisis hotline. the number for that is on
your screen right now. they also offer walk in mental health services. the number for the
national suicide hotline is also on your screen now.

18

KDRV (ABC)
Sep 5 • 11:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_16

the jackson county sheriff's office is investigating a likely murder-suicide. deputies found a
mother and son dead in a home near central point. officer's were called on monday to do a
welfare check on them at a neighbor's request. deputies found 44-year-old shayne cleaveland
and his mother-68-year-old robin meinhart- dead inside the home. police believe cleaveland
shot his mother and two pets- a rabbit and a cat. he then took his own life. police found the
guns used as well as a note left by cleaveland. there are resources for anyone going through a
mental health crisis. on you screen is the number of the jackson county mental health hotline
and the national suicide prevention lifeline. both lines are operated 24- hours. you can also find
these numbers on our website, kdrv.com.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 5 • 12:25 PM

B_SEP_WASH_17

did you know that most gun deaths are not from mass shootings there from suicides that's why
the W's forefront suicide Prevention Center survey Nearly 200 gun retailers across our state to
find out how willing they are to talk to customers about suicide or mental health concerns they
found some reluctance 45% of gun sellers said asking about personal issues is not their
responsibility nearly three-quarters said asking customers about their mental health might
offend them however a majority also said they do want to know more about how firearms
retailers can help prevent suicide here to talk about that our bread bask an instructor at the
Bellevue gun club and also works with forefront suicide Prevention and Robin ball is owner of
sharp-shooting indoor range and gunshot in Spokane Robin you are very familiar with the risk
of suicide you I understand you who saw a gun and suicide at you're shooting range would you
mind telling us that story nation that customer them coming and earn lead late morning early
afternoon and he worth someone known to steve bannon in choosing a number of times with
an encore affairs and he came and shot him and talk with one of my staff members and my
staff member often include the Earth young man why if he was 21 at the time I am you for all
the interpol way he wants shake today any of you don't know sometime maybe I have never
tried before and he made up for election we you get all the check I am when I'm on the range
he shot a little that range of very quiet and night in that salt very master to me based on hit
that timing of Qerim taking his own life but there were no warning planned for it really that we
saw with him part of that was because we did now I am and we we had had contact with them
previously but at that point we didn't have a policy in place on how we Handle guns where and
individual who got from command armed already for and most most ranges actually do how
Pala baby you have to either have a guy like he'll or you have to have a friendly if you but good
advice from my older son he said be one outcome for ank you for gonna hurt themselves and
you know from his background in military training he said the more straightforward yard the
more likely you're going to get a straight forward answer dni asked that question had an error
range Robin I do if they don't fit you know having a friend with them or having another fire with
so you would have a conversation about it but what I'm very clear about why now for fifa place
and can play for the benefit of my staff because I never want I got here I gotta get and people
19

are very receptive to that we talk about suicide bret you worked in firearm sales briefly then
you also work with people renting firearms as range manager Dan I understand you had two
instances where you had to intervene Yeah the the less dramatic of the two week that
individual coming we have the same policy that that Mitt romney was talking about if you're
around from us you either have to have your firearm be accompanied by a person and we spell
for people why that is the giant majority of suicide attempts done in private so if you already
have access to lethal means such as gun the the odds you'd choosing deliberately go to a public
space to do better very low Yeah and so by having a gun that tells us you have access to lethal
means and bring somebody else in with you it says that you're probably right mind set to be
handling firearms and if nothing else near the lease company by somebody so individual camen
and expressed a desire to want to read some guns and the first question that I always ask
somebody is what's intended application for a firearm is looking to get into combat competition
shooting is a very different recommendation if you're looking for a concealed carry a pistol you
want to be a big deal a small cetera and after some waffling not being able to answer is to
protect myself then of course okay are looking to carry your person they are looking at home ET
cetera and after sort of meandering somewhat unsatisfying answer.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 5 • 8:50 PM

B_SEP_WASH_18

the highly secretive Federal Air Marshal program is in crisis according to a monthlong ABC these
investigations as NBC's Chuck Seaver said suicide psychotic episodes and devastating health
problems have rocked the U.S. Federal Air Marshal Service it's documented and government
reports congressional hearings and heated internal correspondence there are no limits on
schedules and short turnaround to protect air marshal health like there are 4 pilots flight
attendants and others some describe managers as abusive vindictive the Marshall Union warns
many members are physically and emotionally Burt's out including danger the flying public
T.S.A. officials say the health and welfare of air marshal is its highest priority.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 5 • 11:10 AM

B_SEP_OREG_17

America suicide rate has increased markedly over the past decade for middle-aged American
the biggest jump as occurred among White Americans whose suicide raid were pro 100000
population rose from 15.9 get in 19 _ninety_ _nine_ 22.3 in 2010 and goes higher and higher
about 50% to 7% of suicides America occurred between ages 35 to 64 that jumps that jump
start a lot since we last checked that those popular form of suicide is gun a gun shoot yourself I
replaces drug overdoses in second place they do hanging hangs a second place where he got
so statistics rightly say that the economy may be to blame for this I would say that the increase
in suicides to be a tribute to the cruelty of American life it's the cruelty of being an American
and obviously this it is now it all and feel like what's the point and when the gun control issue
was being brought up as a push button issue is because the latest shootings I mean gun guns
actually after shootings latest by Morgan we create these red flag was we're setting everybody
up just Bob guns for with sean which mentality demanding accountability from gun owners
20

they may be using drugs or something else alleviated the pressure they have post-traumatic
stress disorder patient doctor confidentiality out the door to life I thought that the during a
break we visit the medical surveillance state is a necessity and that is you have that technology
is connect patients and databases and they say it's for their convenience for the convenience of
those who want to Mark you as someone who is mentally ill people are comfortable with the
idea of the personification of personal information is not available keystroke it opens up your
file is going to have massive system computer databases maintained and monitored by the
government there looked over by law enforcement and there are plenty of for-profit businesses
and private intelligence networks.
KFFX (FOX)
Sep 5 • 6:05 AM

B_SEP_WASH_19

The weather...all causing an emotional rollercoaster ride for farmers these days. as farm
journal's tyne morgan reports...it's sparking some serious conversations about mental
health...during suicide prevention awareness month. katie lyons grew up on an illinois farm a
life full of so much joy. thanks to special memories of her dad when i was younger, he was
always out, playing with us in the yard having fun. and i tried to hold those memories close
because that's that's all i've got left, clinching on to pictures and memories after the
unthinkable changed their family forever. my dad decided to take his life in 2013. after a long
bout of depression and anxiety on the farm, that moment that day and that year to katie's life
on a sharp turn, knowing she had to make good out of so much heartache. and it wasn't till
after that happened, that i realized how important it was and that we really should have had a
lot of stronger, different conversations and what we'd have been having farmers are some of
the best caregivers in the world. they care for crops, they care for land, they care for their
animals, but they're not always the best caregivers of themselves, which makes it hard to reach
out for help, but their cell phone so they want to do things themselves. they want to be the
fixers and find the find the solutions, he'd become very detached. he had taken himself out of a
lot of different organizations that he'd previously been involved with. decider says those signs
were changes and behavior differ from person to person. this is not a secret formula. this is not
something that looks the same for everyone. it's something we're just looking for something
that has changed, or multiple things have changed. she says if you're witnessing a change in
behavior, the first step is to talk to your primary care doctor who can then refer you to a
specialist. but there are also other steps you can take to relieve the stress and burden caving in.
just expand your life beyond agriculture, go to some go to find a book club or find a card club or
have some friends that aren't related to agriculture just so that you can have a break because
that's the uniqueness of farming is it's a career but it's a lifestyle, too. we look at mental health
and we look at stressors and agriculture is kind of that elephant in the room really. and so let's
let's talk about it right, let's try to remove that negative stigma that's associated with mental
health and agriculture. and let's just start the conversation as the weight of challenges and
agriculture gets heavier to set our has one please, to remember, you matter. i just need you to
know that your worth is not measured by the markets. it's not measured by your farm, you are
a valuable person. so i just urge you to, to reach out talk to anyone that will listen are my family
went through a lot and still goes through a lot today. it's not something that just goes away.
21

when you figure out you know how to live your life. we're we're continually grieving even six
years later. and so i want people to know that there's ways to get help, that there's resources
out there that there's options that you don't have to go down this path trying to push board
despite the heartache of such a tragic loss. now reminding this family to always enjoy the little
things in life. with harvest and another usda report just around the corner, its never too late to
start managing risk.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 5 • 7:53 AM

B_SEP_OREG_18

developing-stinger two people are dead in an apparent homicide-suicide in central point. The
sheriff's office says they were found dead in their home on Monday. the home is on new ray
road in central point. you can see that area highlighted in red on this map. neighbors requested
a welfare check on the two people when they had not seen or heard from them in several days.
there was also an odor coming from the home. police believe 44-year-old shayne cleaveland
shot and killed his mother robin Meinhardt before killing himself. two pets were also found
dead due to gunshots. if you or someone you know are experiencing a mental health crisis -there are resources available. Jackson county mental health has a 24-hour crisis hotline. they
also offer walk in mental health services.
KMVU (FOX)
Sep 5 • 10:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_19

two people were found dead in a central point home monday. detectives investigating say it
appears to be a homicide suicide. it happened on the 32 hundred block of new ray road in
central point. neighbors say they heard from the mother often and when that communication
stopped... they started to worry. after discovering a foul smell... they called police to check on
the situation. the mother and her adult son were found dead, along with two pets.. a rabbit and
cat. the jackson county sheriff's office says it believes the son shot and killed his mother...
before turning the gun on himself. "the deaths have been determined to be a homicide and a
suicide""we encourage anybody who is experiencing a mental health crisis to reach out for
help" the sheriff's office identified them as 44-year-old shayne justin cleaveland and his
mother, 68-year-old robin meinhart. neighbors tell us that, meinhart was a sweet lady, but they
did not have much communication with the son. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of harm... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 5 • 12:47 PM

B_SEP_WASH_20

… help you stop people who are at risk for suicide or homicide from getting access to a gun I'm
sure this is a policy question not I love to see more messaging because the knowledge base is
just not fair depending on the audience I'm talking to you from talking to remove professional
for example and by that I mean people accuse fire profession myself member of the armed
22

forces first responders police ET cetera when asked what do you think the largest percentage of
fire fatalities as they will typically insert instinct respond with accidents I think a certain degree
professional humorous kaine goes along with that because the the nonprofessional don't know
exactly Yeah Simon them I'm very good at this and group if I'm talking to people working public
health there's there's a heightened awareness around mass shootings seems to be a big
granted that's the popular consciousness a Cantlie besmirch people for that but very few
people immediately resort Oates is clearly suicide and you can't go anywhere on military
displays I did at 13 years as a Marine Corps Reserve you can't go anywhere on base without
seeing by the way Here's the distressed line here the chaplains number here the suicide
Prevention lifeline it's everywhere it's it's litter early in front of your face above the urinal like
you can't get away from us messaging is everywhere and the pervasive culture role norms
surrounding seeking help with the air force has changed radically from 2001 until tunnel to
allow still vestiges of the old guard of well if you're seeking help means your week yet sure but
the the main thrust of his now we recognize that when people are struggling with mental
health problems you have to see a specialist in many cases there's no shame in that I don't see
anywhere in two years much messaging along those lines in common what like for me if you
walk out this the studio right now where do you think you would see any suicide Prevention
messaging anywhere I just don't see very much of it and so I think he's a better awareness in
media doesn't ask for public funds to sponsor advertising maybe that the whole thing but
beyond that not really my Arena I fully agree that funding is critical and the funding really needs
to go to education and public awareness think people jump her Kara lawson put a seat belt on
not because of the law but because they've been educated that that's the safe way to do
exactly right so I think we've mean that education Chiefs admit to be much blotter under Kiev
saying it's all work it out plans on everything from one of the coolest things favorite their head
that wears a little sticker like they do Yeah and we're room that bar Regarding pregnancy and
alcohol consumption may have a little sticker John flight that way Earth that they are referring
to is sticking to fill find and I think you know Kiev say is the parade here on TV like we used to
do for fifa help safety and education where serve our community is very well well that's that's
part of why we're having this conversation I'm educating people about the fact that the vast
majority of gun deaths come in suicides and that there is more the weekend we can do about
this I want to thank both of you Robin Volandes Spokane from sharpshooting indoor range
gunshot and Brett Bas runs Bellevue gun club and from forefront suicide Prevention program
thanks to both of you thanks for wales and remember if you're somebody no need help you can
contact the National suicide Prevention lifeline Here's that phone number 800 to 7.8 to 5 500 to
7.8
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 5 • 4:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_20

NewsChannel 21 is joining our r central oregon community in the "out of the darkness" walk f
suicide prevention on saturday i have the honor of emceei the event saturday morning it takes
place at pilot butt from ten a-m to one p- registration time starts at nine a-m. the walk supports
the americ foundation for suicide prevention's mission to bring hope and awareness to those
affected by suicide. ### "mental health does not discriminate and we encourage all people to
23

come together to fe understood and safe." thousands of people participate in their local "out of
the darkness" walks cities across the country. online registration ends tomorrow at noon. if
you'd like to participate, you can also register in person beginning nine-am saturday. the event'
free and open to the public.

>> it has all the markings of a love triangle gone tragically bad. >> reporter: it was the love
triangle murder-suicide that rocked the suburbs of philadelphia last year. >> this was the case
of a wife who just reached a breaking point. >> reporter: 33-year-old university executive
meredith chapman found dead killed by the wife of a man she was having an affair with. >>
three, two, one. happy new year! >> reporter: new year's eve 2017, 47-year-old jennair geradot
just moved to delaware to join her husband of 24 years, who started a job at the university of
delaware. mark developed a secret heated romance with his boss, meredith chapman, a
married woman who was 15 years his junior. mark spoke exclusively to me in his first television
interview. >> i just wasn't myself. and jennair picked up on it and ask what had is up. i didn't
want to talk about it. i didn't know where i was with it. she said it's meredith, isn't it.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 6 • 7:45 AM

B_SEP_OREG_21

we talked about meredith before in the context of her professional decorum. it wasn't too far
of a leap for her to get there. and i denied it. >> reporter: but jennair digs deeper, keeping close
tabs on mark, quizzing him about meredith and asking him about comings and goings and
seems to have information she couldn't have any way of knowing and can't figure out how.
unbeknownst to mark his conversations with meredith are being recorded by jennair. >> i've
felt more joy, more excitement this fall than i ever did before. >> love you. >> thanks, love you
too. bye. >> reporter: by valentine's day everything comes to a head. jennair blurts out she has
undeniable proof that mark is having an affair. >> at that time she disclosed that she had taken
my phone and had it cloned. >> reporter: she hired a company to access his phone allowing her
to monitor it including texts and photos. >> i finally just told her, i'm in love with meredith. i
can't deny it anymore. >> reporter: weeks later, mark discovered jennair had sewn a listening
device into the lining of one of his suit jackets so she could hear his private conversations with
meredith. >> she told me she wanted to understand the degree to which meredith and i were
in a relationship. >> reporter: mark and jennair's 24-year marriage quickly begins to crumble
and on the day of meredith's murder, mark is meeting jennair to discuss the terms of their
divorce while he was waiting for her, she began to text him. >> she sent me a text, you ruined
my life, and another text that said, i hope you never find happiness, and then a third text that
said, bye, mark. meanwhile, i'm texting meredith and she's not replying. i thought, okay. jennair
went over to her house. there was a confrontation. so i walked to the back of the house, and i
peered in, and that began a moment of shock. i saw meredith face down on her kitchen floor
and i noticed a pool of blood that was forming around her head. i stood up and i pivoted to my
left and that's when i saw another figure laying there. >> it was jennair. >> i screamed and ran
to her. and i just said to her, baby, what have you done what have you done? >> and police
24

putting the pieces of that puzzle together, that crime scene together, ultimately realizing that
jennair had, in fact, shot meredith and then killed herself. the families of these two women
understandably have not yet commented because it's all still too raw. this happened just a little
over a year ago, and so i think everyone who was affected is still in a state of shock at this point
because it really wasn't anything that anyone anticipated, or thought was even possible. >>
wow. what a story. >> yeah, in some ways it's surprising to hear from him. >> it is very
surprising. >> you're going to have more on "20/20." it airs on abc at 10:00 p.m. eastern.
KOHD (ABC)
Sep 6 • 5:31 PM

B_SEP_OREG_22

life often one that said art. imitates painter, his for a bend almost imita works thete life. we
have behind an artist's story show. >> it upcoming gets me to state. that obsession, i the
beautiful thing about throwingt is just then the beauti caution to the wind and know, theful
mistake, you big part mistake is a paint. this of how ie chester is supposed to b park. from
lincoln call what you painter. an automatic c i just paint ave been painting since i was
aonsciousness. i' i loved to draw little kid. a dinosaurs as this may sick reson child. us, you
know.ates with a lot ofd honor i thought we shoul a painter them. >> i amend, her in b going
great, i oregon. everything was collecting mying work and had different collectors might own
art gallon then i open seattle. we had o ire int cobain,ur guy, kur are going throug you don't
know what people he fell intoh in their lives. my divorce and i a depression after ending it all. it
was had thoughts ofard tame a really h me. i time for where i was had several times feelingf
times whe suicidal, and couple o attempted. i was ire i actually look in then a place i could not it
was like i mirror any more. reflection, and hated the reflection painting is that is a ofhe yourself.
teases like looking in t a mirror. so painting worldwide suicide show for the this is a very, ver
awareness today. topic, we need to addy important i gotress this. it is like by visitedhave this
connectio their ghost sometimes, like i it'sn with them. to keep it super important and aliveis a
big part knowing when to stop it of right?aid you have to ma renoir once s can change thke art
thinking youou must be humblee world, but also, y you touch two enough to think ife
something people, you've don extraor what i helped todinary. and that's show. if we just do
with the people, one reach two we've person, saved the world. >> the dead exhibit poet's artel
discussion onopens with a pan tuesday, 7:00. i'm sorry, as p.m roth petersonntown ben gallery
in dow you know is had. if you or someonecide, there is helving any thoughts of suiurs ap
available 24-ho day. call 1-800-273-825 oregon today.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 6 • 2:45 PM

B_SEP_WASH_21

the man involved in a love triangle murder-suicide case in the Philadelphia area last year says
he wishes he could take back ABC and the robot has that story the has all the markings of a love
triangle gone tragically bad it was a love triangle murder-suicide that brought the main line
suburbs of Philadelphia last year this was a case of all wife whom it's reached a breaking point
_thirty_ _three_ year-old university executive married Chapman found dead killed by the wife
of the man she was having an affair New year's Eve 2017 47 year-old to there geraldo has just
25

move to Delaware to join her husband of 24 years Mark geraldo who started job at the
University of Delaware Mark developed a secret heated romance with his boss mirror with
chatman a married woman who is 15 years his junior marks spoke exclusively to me in his first
television interview I just wasn't myself engineer picked up one to file ask me what is up with
deep and I didn't want to talk about I didn't know I was with it she said specifically its mayor of
isn't we talked about it before in the context of her professional decorum and I do admire
about mayor wasn't too far of a leap for her to get better I denied but to there isn't buying it in
fact she digs deeper keeping close tabs on Mark quizzing him about meredith and asking him
about his comings and goings she seems to have information she couldn't have any way of
knowing and Mark can't figure out how a his upper paired with are being recorded by Gen
there by valentine's day everything comes to ahead generic blurts out she is undeniable proof
that market having an affair but that time Turner disclosed that she had taken my phone had
climbed generic hired a company to access his phone allowing her to monitoring including texts
and photos are filing just told her I'm in love with their if I can.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 6 • 11:43 AM

B_SEP_OREG_23

according to mental health america, more than 700-thousand oregonians reported mental
illness in the past year. since september is suicide prevention month...we broke down some
statistics from a recent study that examined the picture of america's mental health. more than
five- point-three million people in the country with mental illness don't have insurance. but
more than 24 million people with mental illness are going untreated. and almost 10 million
people thought about suicide...a 200- thousand person increase from last year. after a long day
-- it can be hard not to head to bed as soon as you get the chance. but experts say there are 5
things you shouldn't save until the morning -- mandy gaither has more. we all have a night time
routine -- but dr. barbara joy jones of northside hospital gwinnett says the first thing you should
do before sleeping -- bathe. dr. barbara joy jones, primary car physician//"it's nice to just
shower and get rid of the day get the polluntants get the germs off of your body and enter into
your bed nice and clean." while washing off -- go ahead and shave, too -- jones says. dr. barbara
joy jones, primary car physician//"if you cut yourself while you're shaving, then you have
overnight for your body to repair and heal the skin." the next tip -- a little more obvious -- but
still important -- nurture your skin. dr. barbara joy jones, primary car physician//"at night you
want to put on a very heavy moisturizer to replete what was evaporated from your skin during
the day time." journaling -- can also help you get good sleep. dr. barbara joy jones, primary car
physician//"you can actually clear your mind by writing down your emotions writing down your
thoughts and have a clear mind before you go to bed so you have a better night's rest." finally -take a probiotic before bed. dr. barbara joy jones, primary car physician//"if you take it at
bedtime with water you have all night for the bacteria to get through to the intestines and your
gut and find a little crevice for it's home." jones says all of this -- can help set you up for a
successful next day. for today's health minute, i'm mandy gaither.

26

KVAL (CBS)
Sep 6 • 6:16 PM

B_SEP_OREG_24

new ads 6:00, a special event will be held on saturday to raise awareness about suicide. an
organizer with the water fall clinic says oregon has one of the highest rates of suicide in the
united states. with high numbers in coos and curry counties. >> we need to have additional
resources, services, education, whatever we can do to make sure that our friends and family
are not resorting to suicide anymore. >> nelson says many rural communities have higher
suicide rates due to a lack of resources or access to them. the walk will start at mingus park in
coos bay. registration begins at 9:00 a.m. speakers take mace at 10:00 a.m. before the walk.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 6 • 2:22 AM

B_SEP_OREG_25

newschannel 21 is joining our central oregon community prevention on saturday. darkness"
walk for suicide i have the honor of emceeing the event saturday morning. it takes place at pilot
butte registration time starts at ni from ten a-m to one m.ne a-m. the walk supports the
american hope and awareness to foundation for suicide prevention's mission to bring "mental
health does those affected by suicide.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 6 • 6:44 PM

B_SEP_OREG_26

it's been nearly 18 years since nine eleven and there is now more evidence to suggest first
responders are at risk for serious h a new study by the albert einstein college of ealth problems
who arrived first to ground zero are medicine shows that those44 percent more likely to
develop heart related issues than those who came the next day t nearl 98 hundred new york
city the study looked a firefighters who worked at ground zero researchers say the findings
emphasize the importance of monitoring disasters ### those that respond to environemtnal
cally in rural areas suicide rates are on the rise in the u-s and specifiaged 25 to 64 rose by
between 19-99 and 20-16 suicide rates among americans rural areas were 25 41 percent people
living in percent higher than those in metropolitan areas. of suicide were in the west. counties
with the highest riskyment are believed to be low income, poverty, and underemplo leading
factors in the high rates. ###egon community in the "out of the newschannel 21's joining our
central or darkness" walk for suicideention tomorrow morning. i have the honor of emce
preveing the event at pilot butte from 10 a-m to 1 p-m. uicide the walk supports the american
foundation for s affected by suicide.prevention's mission to bring hope and awareness to those
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 7 • 11:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_27

suicide is a nationwide epidemic of police force shaken by suicide the second NYPD suicide in
two days the dip Of what other out new York city has received most Hartman is now once again
mourning the loss of the national attention the so beyond the challenges crisis new York police
27

Commissioner James O'Neill declared mental health crisis in the wake of 9 officers who took on
lives this year we need to change the culture we need to make sure that our police officers
have access to mental health care not at least 130 officers throughout America have died by
suicide and 2019 by the end of the year that number could XT 167 deaths and 28 researchers
say police officers are at higher risk of suicide than any other profession a consequence of
intense stress easy access to firearms and peer pressure to hide their emotions that's one of
the things that his eventual stigmatized songs caucuses don't talk what do you just suck it up
and move on officers like days also point to a culture of mochi his son in law enforcement so
that's why the usage kind of talk most himself and that would be a good thing they wouldn't
talk to me anymore what he talked about he talked about how your pot shop and after a while
you can talk to one knows how the on you you week to carry on his son's legacy Dave has
teamed up with janus to compact stick mock my name is Kenneth McCarthy I lost my husband
is society is jade state police captain here in massachusetts just over 13 years ago after her
husband calls death Janus dedicated her life to making sure help is available for officers who
need it she trains police to recognize signs of trama and themselves and their peers jamison
days for pushing a bill that would mandate mental health police training across massachusetts
it would give them a the tools to look within themselves and their colleagues for signs of which
they are so different even without legislation some departments around the country are taking
steps to tackle the suicide epidemic in law enforcement in Chicago Arizona and New York
administrators are employing more mental health professionals and recently President Donald
Trump signed a bill authorizing up to 7.5 million us dollars for police suicide Prevention efforts
but for days son David and Genesis husband Paul those efforts are too late you know if there's
an officer listening to this piece what's the message you want them to hear the message you
think your husband would want them to hear I would want him to know that they're in more
than a police officer their husband or father R Ariz signed nearest fiddling and that their life it
means more than this job they have to take care of themselves.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Sep 7 • 7:27 AM

B_SEP_WASH_22

we're going to bring you another report about the rising rate of suicide in United States I
caution part of the story may be disturbing secretary journey is a veterinarian Ron largest in San
jose california is on the board of a group called not one more event I tell people I work on
mental wellness and suicide and that's like the veterans you know actually I'm like no that
arians the centers for disease control says veterinarians are more than twice as likely to die by
suicide than the general population.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 7 • 7:00 AM

B_SEP_WASH_23

the suicide rate the U.S. is on the rise and often among groups of people that might surprise
you that for example not just soldiers to that's true true but veterinarian Dr. Carrie journey and
Shanna take California shows I had 86 people in my that's a plus 3 of them are gone I can't let

28

this hour two doctors take this into their clinics to help us understand the unique stressors their
work with animal us and the people who love them.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 7 • 12:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_24

a man suspected of shooting at police in Bellevue last week is now dead after a standoff with
Seattle police early Friday morning officers say they got a call from a man who recognized and
go off from a news report about the Bell these shooting that man told officers that he thought
the while sleeping on a couch in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood when police got there they
confirmed it was a one-sided was still armed during the standoff police a single gunshot and
family Gu Y had killed himself.
88.5 KNKX
Sep 7 • 9:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_25

two suicides among veterinarians I ended with the trial so made things way way better than
when I started I think we did what we needed to do tonight and a gifted team of nurses
surgeons of health did big beloved dog walk again and brought joy to the couple who loved and
Dr. journey could go home happy are my friend well ayman your baby sucked in and then I will
Call you in the morning okay touch event it but I but a few days after Ruben surgery I got this
message from Dr Carrie journey to Hey scott I thought I should let you know we lost crewman
today I have to be honest this is gut wrenching and he can do is to see why the job is hard
there's no better example of this I am devastated I cried because my mind is with ruben
underscore owners even though I know I did everything I could for him I still wonder if I could
have done more and if you are in trouble or thoughts of suicide there is help the number for
the National suicide Prevention lifeline is one 802.3
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 7 • 8:47 PM

B_SEP_WASH_26

we finally got to was missing service members you found him dead and stripped of their
weapons body armor and radios very came face-to-face with the Taliban fighter my was quickly
engaged in hand-to-hand combat and after a brief scuffle and baseball sized rock drop the
Taliban fighter to his death dakota Myers actions that day a pit demise for bravery and valor
and forth that years later he received the medal of honor but as Meier told me it marked a new
chapter in his life and one that becomes incredibly important as we enter suicide awareness
month know what enjoy the military again omar and the price could I could I had you Ash not a
whole the detail I want to get to next and I think most importantly because actually ties into
Ironically the anniversary of that battle to rate go on September 8 is also the beginning of
suicide awareness week.

29

B_SEP_OREG_28

KLSR (FOX)
Sep 6 • 10:22 PM

and a special event will be held in coos bay on Saturday to raise awareness about suicide. an
organizer with the waterfall clinic says oregon has one of the highest rates of suicide in the
united states. >> we need to have additional resources, services, education, whatever we can
do to make sure that our friends and family are not resorting to suicide anymore. says many
rural communities have higher suicide rates due to a lack of resources >> nelson says many
rural communities have higher suicide rates due to lack of resources or access to them. the
event is free. on-site registration starts Saturday at 9:00 a.m. speakers and a remembrance
ceremony take place at 10:00 a.m.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 7 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_29

prevention to drug there was a number of events in bend today from suic, i'm katie zuniga
recovery. good evenings went to a few of those events and he joins us jordan william jordan?
with more kadation for suicidetie, the first event i attended was the american foun prevention's
annual bend walk nel the walk was a little over two miles and hosted by newschan21's lee
anderson participants those that are struggling with suicide were given beads to signify and
those they have lost toation was made to a-f-s-p suicide a generous donbylocal high school ###
a . that mountain view high school the class of "we were just informed at the very last moment
20-19 donated the rest of their senior class funds to this walk to afsp to support us. we were
not told un we are incredibly grateful."til the very last moment and it was incredibly generous
and walks nationwide since two thousand and eig a-f-s-p has been hosting theht. the funds
raised will be invested in new research, rt survivors of suicide loss. educational programs,
advocate for public policy, and suppoal suicide rate by 20 percent by 20-25. a-f-s-p plans to
reduce the annu for more information about suicide prevention v isit k-t-v-z's let's talk page
under the community tab.
KMVU (FOX)
Sep 6 • 11:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_30

the cause of death for those two canadian team serial killers who were found dead has been
revealed. they die of apparent self inflicting done woods before authorities found the bodies
near the nelson river outside of manitoba. the teenagers were the suspects in the murder of a
couple and father of two. they've been led police on a 15 day manhunt before they took their
own lives. the suspects we're last seen in july. police say well both individuals were to cease for
a number of days before they were found, the exact time and date of their depth is not known.

30

KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 6 • 11:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_31

umfield was there today, and honor of suicide prevention. arielle br ### has more on the story.
suicide at one point or know someone who co "whether you attemptedthing because youre
alone in the cell by yommted suicide, being incarcerated, you feel the same ts my purpose."
robertnewsonurself. you have these thoughts about whats my life, wha robert newson, an
infound mate at deer ridge correctional facility east of madras himseled up for a f going through
a hard time in his life after being lock demself contemplating cade, and like many inmates
found hiundred other inmates in the out of the darkness w suicide... today he joined nearly 3
hevention walk taking place in many alk at deer ridge. out of the darkness is a suicide prlk arose
after an inmate at santiam correcti communities, including bend. this particular wavention
resources for inmates. "in may of 2onal institution expressed the need for more suicide
prerectional facility in the united states, we're v017, we held the first out of the darkness walk
at a corut so rewarding to watch that grow." danbieery proud to hold that title and it is a lot of
work bther facilities shared the same struggle, dlenberg after recognizing that many other
inmates at oor suicide prevention. 3 years later, 6 oregan bielenberg partnered with the
american foundation fat deer ridge. "suicide is one of the leading on prisons are holding walks.
and today's was the first and in jails, so it causes of death for people who are incarcerated, in
prisons makes too much sense for us to be h struggle, ere in this population, because like
everyone else they inside and they also have people on the outde l they have limited resources
le that they worry about as welike family and friends that strugg purchased care packages
costing l." ryan price inmates used their own money and 0 or 20 dollars to raise for su either
1undred dollars, but for these inmates its icide prevention. they raised more than 32-h want to
be that guy, the guy that puts a hand o about much more than the money. "iy that listens, just
simply listens. they ut, the guy that reaches into someones darkness. the guht to guide them
out of the darkness." jeffguy that gives someone a little hope that there is a lig ones they were
walking for, marvelluslucas wreyadams the inmates took the field with nametags of lovedhigh
school "i felt like she couldve came to me aalked for a close friend who committed suicide in
ook a part of me away. icouldve been a better nd couldve talked to me, when she committed
suicide it tr resources." marvellus lucas and michael friend, icouldve reached out to her more,
icouldve gave he, jeff seems who died of heroin overdose, he seems, who walked for his father
"im walking for my dad taking his own life with drugs. thats why im her suffered with mental
illness- drug abuse and ended upppened so he really had no one with him, he was ae just to
support that, i was in prison when it ha lone." michael seems said they're grateful just to be a
part of many inmatese just shows that while even in prison tha such an important issue. "i think
being able to participat. these walls we're confined in still forct we still do care just the same as
those out in societyes us to feel emotion and feel a certain way."liamgordon this walk also
served to encourag rasheedlambert and wile the inmates to keep going, despite having ere is
always going to be a better day, if a low moment in life. "i know that tomorrow thtomorrow is
not the better day, it could be tht a few days everything always changes." e day after. i know
forsure if you just wait and give i michael seems ### ide rates are rising suic but a new report
claims nationwide, across all groups. Rural communities are at a higher risk than the-99 and 2016 rest. between 19 suicide rates among Americans aged 25 to 64 rose by 41 per people in
31

living in rural areas were 25 percent higher than thos metropolitisk ofan areas. counties with
the highest rsay leading factors are low suicide were in the west. experts income, poverty, and
underemployment. ### our central oregon community in the "out o newschannel 21's joining
the prevention tomorrow morning. darkness" walk for suicideceeing the event at pilot butte
from 10 a-m i have the honor of emto 1 p-m. or suicide prevention's the walk supports the
american foundation f and awareness to those affected by suicide. mission to bring hope.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Sep 7 • 8:04 AM

B_SEP_WASH_27

a man suspected of being shot by police. police got a call from a man who recognized him from
a news report about the bellevue shooting. the man told officers he thought he was sleeping on
his couch in the capitol hill neighborhood. when police got there they confirmed he was there
and still armed. he killed himself during the standoff.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 6 • 11:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_32

of these so I could see myself in his step it and take advantage police officers experienced the
worst of humanity being counter dead bodies traffic accidents and days case his own son's
suicide police suicide is a nationwide epidemic of police force shaken by suicide the second
NYPD suicide in two days the dip Of what other out new York city has received most Hartman is
now once again mourning the loss of the national attention the so beyond the challenges crisis
new York police Commissioner James O'Neill declared mental health crisis in the wake of 9
officers who took on lives this year we need to change the culture we need to make sure that
our police officers have access to mental health care not at least 130 officers throughout
America have died by suicide and 2019 by the end of the year that number could XT 167 deaths
and 28 researchers say police officers are at higher risk of suicide than any other profession a
consequence of intense stress easy access to firearms and peer pressure to hide their emotions
that's one of the things that his eventual stigmatized songs caucuses don't talk what do you just
suck it up and move on officers like days also point to a culture of mochi his son in law
enforcement so that's why the usage kind of talk most himself and that would be a good thing
they wouldn't talk to me anymore what he talked about he talked about how your pot shop and
after a while you can talk to one knows how the on you you week to carry on his son's legacy
Dave has teamed up with janus to compact stick mock my name is Kenneth McCarthy I lost my
husband is society is jade state police captain here in massachusetts just over 13 years ago after
her husband calls death Janus dedicated her life to making sure help is available for officers
who need it she trains police to recognize signs of trama and themselves and their peers
jamison days for pushing a bill that would mandate mental health police training across
massachusetts it would give them a the tools to look within themselves and their colleagues for
signs of which they are so different even without legislation some departments around the
country are taking steps to tackle the suicide epidemic in law enforcement in Chicago Arizona
and New York administrators are employing more mental health professionals and recently
President Donald Trump signed a bill authorizing up to 7.5 million us dollars for police suicide
32

Prevention efforts but for days son David and Genesis husband Paul those efforts are too late
you know if there's an officer listening to this piece what's the message you want them to hear
the message you think your husband would want them to hear I would want him to know that
they're in more than a police officer their husband or father R Ariz signed nearest fiddling and
that their life it means more than this job they have to take care of themselves.
KOAB (PBS)
Sep 8 • 5:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_33

learning to be in touch with and the way men are one's emotions can change lives, them in may
be connected to an traditionally taught to hold avalanche of unhealthy outcomes. in 2018, the
american published the a.p.a. guidelines psychological association for psychological practice
with boys and men. the collected research found the first report of its kind, , that "traditional
masculinity, marked by stoicism competitiveness, dominance and aggression, is, on the whole,
harmful." written over 13 years, and based0 years of compiled on 4 striking mental and
research, the report lays out some physical health disparities between men and women. men
are 3.5 times more likely to commit suicide, and men die from heart disease and cancer at rates
50% and 80% higher than women. >> we know that men, on average, than do women. ve to six
years earlier.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 8 • 11:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_28

a lynnwood teen is dead tonight after an accidental shooting. the snohomish county sheriff's
office says they got reports of a 15-year-old boy playing with a gun this afternoon when he
accidentally shot himself in the head. major crimes detectives are working to confirm the
details but say they do not believe there are any suspects. this happened around 4:00 this
afternoon near 25th place west and 204th place southwest. we spoke with the mom of a teen
who is friends with the boy who died. >> i think it's very, very sad to hear that, and hopefully
this will be a wake up call for a lot of teenagers. >> it's a terrible situation. it's a young 15 yearold kid with his life ahead of him to end his life in such a tragic and unnecessary way. >> people
who eew e teen say he was a sophomore in high school. police are still investigating where the
gun came from.
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 7 • 10:01 PM

B_SEP_OREG_34

there were a number of events in bend today from suicide prevention t drug recovery. good
evenin i'm katie zuni one of the events newschanne 21 was at today was the americ
foundation's suici prevention's annual bend wal it was a little over two miles and was hosted by
newschannel21's le anderson participants we given beads to signi those that are struggling with
suicide and those they've lost suicide a generous donatio was made to a-f-s-p a local high
school ### "we were just informed at the very last moment. that mountain view high school the
class of 20-19 donate the rest of their senior class funds to this walk to afsp to support us. we
33

were not told until the very last mome and it was incredibly genero and we are incredibly
grateful a-f-s-p has been hosting the walks nationwide since two thousand and eight the funds
raised will be invested in new research, educationa programs, advocate for public policy, and
support survivors of suicide loss a-f-s-p plans to reduce the annual suicide rate by 20 percent by
20-25 for more information about suicide prevention visit k-t-v-z's let's ta page under the
community tab.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 8 • 8:10 AM

B_SEP_WASH_29

I want to talk with you about something you mentioned more than once and everytime you say
the words it frightens me the suicide scenes with good reason Yes right try Jemele all around us
I was able to say he did and he did well okay brit thank you so talk to us talk to us about the
suicide disease want to call that well try it in your religion is just an ad normal condition the
notion is a big enough on the side of the face with 3 Roche's coal cry Jemele try standing for 3
major and and wind and pay people get tm of Regiment wrote and tn may be an easier time
pressed years it is known as the suicide disease because more human beings commit suicide
because of this condition and with this condition than any other single condition was like
unrelenting pain yon aside your pain really Yes and and and it affects people are just wind
blowing on their face just turning ahead I just brushing against the skin these the Kind of thing
that time and how long can this flashed risk for the rest of their life people have their whole
lives and they will play well islam they don't commit suicide you know of course they come to
the audience can be a very large but it can also be a small part of the face correct Yeah can
affect both we know it's more common we want to have the knives and can change you can
move around.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 7 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_35

there were to a number of events in bend today from suicide preventionnigadrug recovery.
good evening, i'm katie zuhe events newschannel one of t21 was at today was the american
foundation's snnual bend walk uicide prevention's aand was hosted by newschannel21's lee it
was a little over two miles anderson participants were given beads to signify those that are
strugsuicide a generous donation gling with suicide and those they've lost to was made to a-f-sp by "we were just informed at the very last mome a local high school ### donated nt. that
mountain view high school the class of 20-19 walk to afsp to support us. we were not told the
rest of their senior class funds to this t moment and it was incredibly generous and until the
very laswe are incredibly grateful."wo thousand and eight. a-f-s-p has been hosting the walks
nationwide since t w research, educational the funds raised will be invested in nepolicy, and
support survivors of suicide loss. programs, advocate for public a-f-s-p plans to reduce the
annual suicide rate by 20 percent by 20-25. for more information about suicide prevention visit
k-t-v-z's let's talk.

34

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 9 • 2:24 PM

B_SEP_WASH_30

According to a new study looking at the past 20 years the rate of suicide in rural areas across
the country is way up ABC Sherry preston reports between 1996 and 2016 more people in
Metropolitan areas died by suicide but if you look at the numbers across the country the suicide
rate is much higher and more isolated areas researchers speculate the lack of social contact
low-income and reliance on government assistance may be driving the economic realities of
farming may also play a role for us and not runs a hotline for those struggling can seek out and
merck calls them from global on a spouse or a child who's very concerned about their mother
or father who side rates across the country jumped 41% over the 20 years of the study.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 9 • 11:57 AM

B_SEP_WASH_31

There has been a sharp increase in the number of suicides across the country over the past two
decades new study shows suicide rates jumping 41% between the years 1996 and 2006 the
numbers highest among White men aged 45 to 54 the numbers show more people in
Metropolitan areas died by suicide during those years but the suicide rate has gone up
substantially in more rural areas some say those less populated areas are less educated more
socially isolated and more dependent on government assistance and that could be driving the
numbers.
KOHD (ABC)
Sep 9 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_36

those who have seen his latest opening up dis exhibition say it'sprevent others from takcussion
and may lives. ing theirrom the news roomanyssa bohanan joins us f>> he says his with more.
with own experienceshat up expired him to suicidal thoughts are w put his brush canvas to find
pea back to the with a heavy topic.ce his art will beginning tomorrowterpiece be the cen of a
two week. exhibitt every it's estimated tha around 250,000 people year fected by are af suicide.
>> on my a loved one'sh 19t young many dated in birthday a s highd suicide, school committer
it every year i've here i am, i remembe birthday. i had a see his face every day andll am angry
and i'm angry and stiprobably always will b ne. >> ie. >> she is not alo to suicide a lost my dad
and thatnd i was 23ith suicide and was my first experience wears old i since i was about 10
yecause he was familiar with it b it, you had been threatening own know, struggling with his but
it wasn't mental health. 2009 that he until and, so actually completed the act me, that affected
very close with tremendously. you know, i wasears after my dad. >> in the y says she her
father's death she organizations to searched for help her teale from hee leal the tragicl from
suicide is loss. >> you one thing wrong?think did i say something fault? you have is it my ifs, it's
the what really wanted to hard. several years later itart something or month try to find
something or s because through the years i've vied that resource friends and an lost several
suicide as well and employee too prevalent in o i realized it's sity, mental illness iur commun
aren't talking abouts huge and people >> years after it and they need to. her loafers loss she
35

turned to others yout particularly in centralh in central oregon. >> cause of death betwe oregon
the no. 1 is suicideen 10 and 24f thos and a vast portion o aree sue i vids youth. a couple years
ago we lgbtq young man who had a and ended up attempted suicideas 11. in a hospital. he w
life has so for someone who is become so serious years old that 10 and 11 contemplate suicide
a they would >>nd it's heart breaking. artist has shown carpenella his art throughave killed wellknown people who h themselves. th thatey both sayarpenella's exhibit is a g c discussion oreat
way to open up theof suicide. >> in the topic presentations like think perfect. things lik this aree
this can be who have triggering for people depression or who suffered from have had suicide
it's important we are idolization.the whole picture. >> i'm looking at people in who will hoping
it will bringof the maybe see one he has paintings that done, is a perfect bordaine here's a man
one, feel the power, did that who killed himself, why i like happen. >> am am i in that kate
spade?e it opens up path? i hop minds. >> some the dead poet's held exhibit will be free, doors
tomorrow, admission is 4:00 p.m will open at is. if you or someone thoug struggling with suicide
callhts of the suicide hot for "central line. anyssa bohanan.
KHQ (NBC)
Sep 9 • 6:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_32

A health alert this morning... suicide rates are on the rise in the u-s... and a study reveals who is
at a greater risk. according to a study... the rate of suicide in americans has risen 41 percent
from 19-90 to 20-16. and it's people living in rural areas, near gun shops, or without health
insurance that are the most "at risk." a 25 percent higher compared to those in major
metropolitan area. the study finding some of the highest at-risk communities are in the west. if
you or someone you know is suffering from suicidal thoughts... the national suicide prevention
lifeline is at the bottom of your screen.
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 9 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_33

the world health organization released some sobering news about suicides around the world
this morning. one person takes their own life every 40 seconds, according to the latest study.
suicide is the second leading cause of death for young women 15 to 29 years old. more than
half of suicides occur with people under 45 years old. and twenty percent of suicides are spur of
the moment decisions, caused by stress. s/ dr. alexandra fleischmann / world health org :18 ter
issue as i mentioned, mental health, condition depressions, alcohol use disorder, we would
have to look about the access, early identification, the access to care. do people in the
american region have the access to care?" overall, close to 800- thousand people die by suicide
every year..more than those who are killed by war, malaria, breast cancer or homicide. and
please remember -- there is help available 24-seven. if you or someone you know needs
someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is
on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.

36

KONG-SEA
Sep 9 • 7:04 PM

B_SEP_WASH_34

and this looks like any other little girl playing with her father. take a closer look, this ten- yearold has shackles on her ankles. charged as an adult with she is incarcerated. killing a six-monthold baby. now her mother is speaking exclusively with ann mercogliano. >> reporter: she is the
little girl accused of killing a six- month-old baby. now her mother is speaking out for the first
time. >> it's not what it seems. >> reporter: despite her age, the girl is charged as an adult for
first degree intentional homicide. the viwas baby jackson hunter. it happened here at a day care
in chippewa falls, wisconsin. police say the girl was inside with six-month-old baby jackson
when she accidentally dropped him. that is when cops say she panicked and stomped on his
head to stop him from crying. >> will is no way that it was done in any type of intentional way.
anything she said to you? >> reporter: do you remember >> that it was an accident. and you
know what? i believe my daughter. >> reporter: the disturbing video of the ten-year-old little
girl being led into court sobbing shocked everyone. >> it was one of the saddest days i have
ever had to go through. >> reporter: baby jackson's heartbroken father nate says he wants
justice no matter the girl's age. >> i seen it as the person who killed my son. >> reporter: now
the girl's mother is sharing personal photos and videos exclusively with inside edition. do you
think she has been painted as a monster? >> yes, i do. >> reporter: is she? >> no. she's not. she
is beautiful, intelligent, smart, loves to sing, loves to play. >> today in this video we're going to
be playing hide and seek. >> reporter: she's been locked up for nine months. this video shows
her getting a ride from her father. she is smiling but as dad puts her down, you see a shocking
thing. shackles around her ankles. the girl's family says she suffers from mental illness and they
try to get her help but were turned away. >> they denied my daughter because she wasn't 12
years old. >> reporter: she was trying to kill herself and you couldn't get her help. >> i could
not. they sent her home. because suicide had an age limit. >> reporter: as a last resort, the girl's
parents say they placed her in a county licensed program for three days a week. the same place
where the baby lost his life. following her arrest, the girl was held at this juvenile detention
facility for two months. we were given a look inside to see what life is like for a ten- year-old
inmate. this is a typical cell in this facility. you can see bars on the windows here. a mattress
that is only two inches thick. a desk for the kids and a toilet. >> reporter: each child gets at least
one hour of exercise a day. says director rob fadness. >> there is no windows. there is not really
anything here expect the four walls. >> reporter: the girl has been transferred to a new adult
facility at winnebago mental health institute. four hours from home. >> she is the youngest
person there. she is 11 years old. with women 40 years old and over. >> reporter: what does
she eat? >> she had peanut butter and jelly tonight. >> reporter: for dinner? >> for dinner. >>
reporter: does she get education there? >> she does. >> reporter: to you know if there is a
playground there for her? >> there is not. >> reporter: so she doesn't get play time? >> she gets
to go outside. >> reporter: is she scared? >> definitely. she wants to come home. >> reporter:
art work and handwritten letters come regularly in the mail. >> i miss you guys so much. >>
reporter: how often do you get these letters? >> reporter: this mom says she >> reporter: day.
has compassion for baby jackson's family but wants her daughter back home. >> it's a sad story
all the way around. and not just one family suffering, but there is two. >> deborah: we have
asked the county department of human services why a troubled child was allowed in the same
37

facility as a six-month-old in day care. they did not get back to us. the day care owner had no
comment. for now the little girl has been declared not competent to stand trial at this time.
officials say if later she is able to understand the charges against her, the case will resume.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 9 • 8:10 PM

B_SEP_WASH_35

national director of fire and aviation management for the U.S. Forest service she has reason for
the rise in suicide are unclear though some speculate longer and tougher wildfire seasons may
be affecting their mental well being a lot of time firefighters I am Yeah and they don't want to
admit that he they're feeling a certain way me feel like you can ask for help look Garza's says
that's what happened to her husband Mark Mullan Max they met in 2001 at ground zero as
part of the first team of wildland firefighters to help with 9 11 recovery efforts the carson says
that was one of the many tragedies that weight on his mental health he took his own life 7
years later at the age of 40 minutes moment X never sought professional help so now we'll
keep on her firefighting culture to be able to give who ruled that are not Geoff Potter declined
to spray water give them emotional intelligence infoation but the younger age should be able
to be prepared for their life and one of our the Garza who earned a PhD in psychology after her
husband's suicide says things can get especially tough for the season and firefighters lose
Comer moderating a paycheck and the rush of being on the fire line GE buys knows that feeling
it's a degree of anxiety heart everybody is going to be different have I ever for the Press Yes I
have Baez who took the Department of natural resources now started his firefighting in Lacey
nearly 30 years ago but says help only started to trickle down a few years back that's when DNR
started giving its crews preparing the sky that focus on mental health Department also takes
part in training sessions to cope with stress management's you know what the flag and what
the science and how can we noticed those things before it's too late or too few is the mentality
of depression and possible suicide or addiction to alcohol and drugs from the off-season by says
the first step is breaking down the stigma of being met tough pull yourself up by your
bootstraps firefighter something the wildland firefighter Foundation preaches the support
group based at of item now offers professional guidance helping struggling firefighters get the
help they need Mark months is director of outreach was a big relief for her for those people
that have been harboring it for a long time now and realizing that week anyway he does seem
to be right in your body mind and spirit to do this job A.G. this was a very awesome thing he did
in the number one reason is because September September is national suicide Prevention
month Yes all that kind of suicide French week right so this is not the whole month a month is
this week specifically his national suicide armed okay awesome fantastic you know if you hear
about this number one I didn't know that this goes on and with firefighters I know I idea but it
kind of makes sense because it reminds me of what goes on with nfl football players I know
about that first hand because knowing some friends in knowing the depression that vague go
through when some of these guys have been playing football since they were 7 8 years old and
all of a sudden in the say their early 30s are done no more locker room no more corollary or
anything like that this is this is crazy the lady lost her husband have a chance to talk to her how
was that Yeah sean Garza she Is she's an incredible woman she's been in firefighting for Earth
ties once nearly 40 years so had she met her husband Mark who she called Mr. Colorado fire he
38

been for big and tough he always been this this figure that you know that figure that we all
those sort of the civil way behind flame Yeah knows that that tough guy but she didn't go into a
lot of details about why he took his own life safe to say you know firefighting had an effect on
that of course but he was also going through some other things as well but again after that
happened she took it upon herself to pursue a doctorate in psychology and then she worked
her way up to the highest ranks of the firefighting community and is now teaching what she
knows to the rest of the community so I know you you said in your story that that we don't
really know why this is happening but and maybe this is this is just speculation I don't know if
you have the answers here but it reminds me of what I hear from other types of you know
heroes silhouette jobs police officers and soldiers in our military people groups whose suicide
rates have gone up and up and in the last couple years they are they working with these groups
is there they sort of what's going on there and you ring of veterans because the veterans are
the kind of people who want to become firefighters actually you hear that locker room so they
become even at higher risk because they go with number of trauma and veterans are the
greatest risk of taking their lives soon after they leave the military so that and you're talking
about you so you down time came it can uncover or can exacerbate annoy alcohol drug use
mental health issues you find avoid of you howdy wife it back into society you know it reminds
me to buzz aldrin the moon who did the second man ever walk on the moon he when he was
done he came back and had a very long very intense struggle with alcohol and and I think other
drugs but but certainly alcohol and and depression I mean I like that they're trying to get ahead
of this even with with programs and really considering the mental tax on this job just like you
know we have for forever that the physical attack Yeah I will just clarify something they're not
getting ahead of this they're saying they're catching up right right Yeah if you what I need is
your right I didn't say that well what I mean is there they're looking at mental health and
they're trying to give it a firefighter's options corrects Yeah and again there are preparing his
guides they're handing out there telling family is to come with incoming recruits to come to
training sessions and Hey this is going to happen you might not see your husband or your wife
your partner for weeks at a time you might miss holidays you might miss birthdays this is this is
tough stuff so it's it's a dose of reality they're trying to give them before they even enter the
field Yeah Let's say Gee real quick this because this is Prevention week if you are struggling and
there's help the National suicide Prevention lifeline 100 to 7.8 to 5 5 that's 800.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
US Sep 8 • 10:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_36

it is suicide Prevention week at ohio state University researchers have been looking at a big
suicide spike the last 15 years correspondent Gary on reports suicide is more prevalent in
places where firearms are easiest to get erian that have more gun shop need to hydrate I lead
researcher Daniel deal Smith says the rise in social media also is a likely factor that can be a
place where everybody else look like life it's a much better where as individual may not feel
that way you're in feel Out of work if I debated him money other people and reducing access to
methods of suicide narrows the chances at risk person will decide.

39

KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 9 • 7:02 PM

B_SEP_OREG_37

suicide prevention awareness week in cent this week iral oregon, and e many events you can
attend to learn more about there ar prevention. ets art at the today newschannel visited a new
exhibit called dead po bend. tomo petersonroth gallery in downtown who tookrrow afternoon
art is on display featuring famous people 20-19 regional oregon heal their own lives. the th
assessment rep orted back in 20-17, central oregon saw the number of suicides in a decade. the
dead poets highest art exhibit seeks to show rences between both celebrities and everyday the
similarities and diffe individuals who share this struggle. that illustrates success does not always
mean gratification. stephaniesahleen says there's such aal illness, it's important to have events
stigma around mentlike this to open the door for conversation. ### events like this is amazing
because we really ne "having ed to start talking about it if we want to see changeif we want to
see people getting the help that th and ever is holding them back or that feeling they need. so
they can be free of that depression or whatd we have to startat they dont want to live
anymore. we have to step up anging awareness to our community." helping people, and
speaking about it about it and brin if you, or anyone you sit our know, is struggling with
thoughts of suicide, please vi website at ktvz.tab.com and click on the lets talk tab under the
community you'll find a list of resources you can call or text for help
KBNZ
Sep 9 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_38

On my 19th birthday a young ma >> so here i am,n i dated in high school committed suicide,y
year i've had a birthday. i remember it ever angry and still am angry and i see his face every day
and i'm probably always will be. in central oregon she is >> here not alone. >> i lost my dad to
suicide and i was 23 and that was my first experience with suicide andsince i was about 10 years
old i was familiar with it because he had been threatening it, you know, struggling with his own
mental health. but it actual wasn't until 2009 that heat affected me tremendously.ly completed
the act and, so, thvery close with my dad. you know, i was her >> in the years after father's
death she says sheched for organizations to searhelp her heal from the tragic loss. suicide >>
different, it's is thing the one you have thewhat-ifs. think did i say something wrong? you you
have the what ifs, it's is it my fault?several years later i reallyhard. wanted to try to find
something or start something or the years i've lost severalprovide that resource because
through suicide as well and i realized friends and an employee tocommunity, mental illness is
it's so prevalent in our it and they need to. >> huge and people aren't talking about years after
her loss she turned to helping othersn central oregon. particularly lgbtq youth i >> in central
oregon the no. 1 is suicide and a vast portion of cause of death between 10 and 24 are lgbtq
youth. those suicides a couple years ago we had a young man who attempted suicid he was
11.e and ended up in a hospital.come so serious so life has be for someone who is 10 and 11
years old that they would heartbreaking. contemplate suicide and it's >> artis his ownt
carpenella has shown with experiences art ofsuicidal thoughts through his ho have kille wellknown people wd themselves. world suicide it opens on awareness day. a great way to open up
the discussion on t they both say that carpenella's exhibit isnk presentations like this are
40

perfect.he topic of suicide. >> i thi i thi isnk what he is doing amazing.ike this can be triggering f
because things lwho have had suicide idoor people who have suffered from depression or
ilization. fantastic he has pu think it's resizers tolled in various whole picture. ensure we are
looking at the >> i'm hoping it will bring people in who will maybe see one of the paintings that
he has feel the power, here's a man who done, bordaine is a prime one,. killed himself, why did
that happenike kate spade? am i in am i l i hope it opens up somthat path?e minds. >> the dead
poet's exhibit will be held tomorrow, 7:00,open at 4:00 p.m. admission is free, doors will with
thoughts of suicide callif you or someone is struggling the suicide prevention hot for "central
oregon daily"
B_SEP_OREG_39

KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 9 • 5:05 PM

his week is suicide , and there are many events you can attend to learn more about prevention.
arielle brumfield has been following the story, and joins us with more. thats right, le arielle t ine
on wednesday at 6pm o- s-u extension will host an enprevention week called stress less with
redmond in honor of suicide mindfuln stress less with ess.mindfulness will provide you with
practices and de an osu extensions reprmonstrations that will help reduce stress.ect esentative
says mindfulness is a brain science, a subjd for centuries on ways to get your that has been
studie to relax. glenda hyde says that mindful breathin brain g and mindful movements through
a hard time. ### can help benefit anyone going themselves become more resilient and able to
co "anyone that learns these can help situations. yope with all kinds of" ull learn how to
respond instead of react to stressors. struggling with suicide, please visit if you or anyone you
know is website at ktvz.com and click on the lets talk t our ab under the community x ill tell you
about more events that you can at tab at sitend this week to help brumfield, newschann
prevent suicide.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 9 • 6:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_40

it is a special day here at katu news. we are taking part in an unprecedented effort to raise
awareness and stop the stigma of suicide. we will run stories called breaking the silence. we
want to start by taking about legislation that was just passed. >> katu explains how it will help
students struggling with mental health. >> the students were under fund and there is not
enough counselors. >> we've heard the repeated calls for help from students and teachers. >>
you know, we aren't psychologists and we do need help in supporting students. >> we've been
at the same table as sorrowful school leaders >> i sat with one family and i thought could i be
this amaze and resilient when my own child had killed themselves? i don't know. they asked for
help and, they are getting money. the students success act is blowing a billion a year in schools,
half will be spent on state wide initiatives including work and meals and funding measure 98.
oregon nearly 200 school districts will have guidelines on how they can spend the rest. >> they
have a range of things they can spend it on, and one of them has to be mental and behavior
health. >> this is where the districts have some freedom. they will each get to decide what to
invest in. maybe counselors, or curriculum? it's up to the communities to decide and the
41

districts to listen. >> for once, students are giving our voice out there and the most important
thing is listen to us. >> the schools won't see the money until next school year. this year really is
all about planning. the districts have to decide what they need to help with mental health in
their area. once they have a plan, they will submit it for grant money, that will come with
accountability measure to make sure that the money is going where it is supposed to. >> and
this is katu second contribution to b t silence. back in april, we shared a half hour special on
bullying and the impact on mental health. you can see that story and all the other ones put
together by tv stations and radio stations and newspapers across the state, at breaking the
silence or.com.
KOHD (ABC)
Sep 9 • 5:33 PM

B_SEP_OREG_41

welcome back t all new "central oregon daily". st here's a quick recap of our is using hisories. >>
a bend artist paintings toone of america's shine a lights on least epidemics -- discussed he said
his own suicide. what thoughts are made him his bru put beginning tomorrow hissh back. the
centerpiece art will be exhibit which he of a two week people think about hopes will make and
discuss subject of the difficult have seen suicide. those who helping them do that the exhibit
said it is possibly help and coulders to keep fro oth own livem taking their ins.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 9 • 9:47 PM

B_SEP_OREG_42

welcome back to am northwest. it is national suicide prevention week and our next guest
understands the impact suicide has on a family. peer to share more we welcome back trauma
and grief guide and author of a new morning, regina edelson. back. they are grim. let's get into
facts. how prevalent is suicide? >> suicide is very prevalent. there are people all over the world
that are dying by suicide. in oregon two people die every day from suicide. it is the 2nd leading
cause of death for people ages 15 to 34. >> wow. >> it is the 10th leading cause of death in the
united states. >> your son and also your brother died by suicide. >> they did. mark's death is
what i called -- he really was tired. >> this is your brother? >> brother mark was tired and he
had a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia for several years. a minister said if you love jesus
enough you don't take your medication. >> oh no! >> two weeks later mark was dead. then 3
1/2 years later my son read died by impulse of death is what i called his death. he had no
intention of killing himself. he was 1/9 grader, he was kicked off the basketball team and
suspended from school for 3 days and at 15 1/2 he had never failed. when he left school he told
his buddies i'll see you on the basketball floor next year. i was comforting his girlfriend, his dad
was talking to the basketball coach and read just got up and left and when he got home he bent
over a shot gun and literally lost face. there are impulses that our teenagers have. >> right. and
so, you talk about a zero suicide plan. what is that? >> i am so proud for the state of oregon, so
happy because our legislature in 2014 said we have to do something. this is a health crisis.
there was a group of over 100 people who came together and created a plan for 0 suicide. the
intention is between 2016 and 2020 we will have zero suicide in oregon. yes, you raise your
eyebrows because yes, it is a very, very ambitious plan. the thing is, suicide is a public health
42

problem right now that can be solved. if every single one of us say yes, i want to be involved in
that. one of the things that happens is this person is doing this and that person is doing that in
the right hand often doesn't know what they are doing. they have created the oregon alliance
to prevent suicide.org. it is a really easy place to navigate and there is a place to get involved. it
is just absolutely wonderful. what it does is give hope to those in relationship with people with
mental illness because it is exhausting. it gives help to those who have mental illness but don't
want to seek help because of the stigma and it also then gives healing to those who have
attempted to die by suicide and thankfully didn't hear. >> right. you have something called a
circle of celebration. tell me how that works and why you believe it works. >> i know it works.
several years ago i got a call from a mother on a friday who said my son is hospitalized and is
coming home on sunday. he attempted to die by suicide she said, what shall we do? i said let us
create a circle of celebration. we will invite all of his friends and their parents. and so, we had
this wonderful gathering in the backyard, his counselor was there, i was there and i said to him,
welcome back and i said his name i looked him in the eye and i said we are so glad you are here.
we are going to go around the circle and every single person it is going to tell you what they
would have missed had you died. it was very powerful and i am thankful to say that four years
later after many struggles he is driving. one of the things i wished i would've done then is to
have each person then write down what they said so that they could given him the card so on
those dark days he would have pthat. and, people need reasons to live. >> you said something,
go outside to go within? >> yes. that is really important because all that is happening inside of
us is what is creating this urge to leave the planet. when you take your person outside in nature
there is so much to look at and the energy shifts. go outside to go within. how many times have
you've been out and just marveled at a sunset or saw the dew on the pine needles? it just shifts
because we are all connected to that wonder and awe. it is in there but with mental illness it
gets buried really deep. >> what do you say to someone who might be contemplating suicide or
what don't you say? what don't you say to someone who you believe is depressed? >> let's go
to somebody who is talking about dying. if they are talking about dying it's important to say, i
just heard you say you want to give up. tell me more. and then really listen. listen with your
whole being. this is tricky because of someone says i want to die it can cause us a great deal of
anxiety and we can be really scared. it is important for us to breathe, it's important for us to
stay present with them and then if they tell you more, you ask, do you have a plan? and, you
know, then you may need to take them to the emergency room. >> do you think sometimes
just listening is the key? >> i do. absolutely. yes. people need to be seen, heard and
appreciated. >> absolutely. georgina, thank you again i appreciate it. the book again is called a
new morning and we will have more information on our website at katu.com.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 9 • 5:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_43

last night a man was shot and killed near 18th 18th and bee street. >>reporter: it happened at
this home at 18th and beech street. neighbors heard a gun fired. they were evacuated and later
heard more gunshots. longview police were dispatched at 7:20 p.m. they reported a suicidal
subject with a weapon. >> he wouldn't come out. he walked on. >>reporter: they did see the
subject holding the weapon and they wouldn't specify what kind it was they said they heard a
43

gunshot. this couple confirmed they heard it too. they said the suspects behavior was out of
character. >> he was verying loving. always hugging on his kids and wife. >>reporter: the swat
team was called in to help. several were evacuated andweren't allowed to return until after the
shooting. it was nearly midnight. clark county is investigating what lead up to it. >> they were
good people. i love the kidsment they were nice and grew up with my grandkids. it will be sad
not seeing them there any more. >>reporter: they have not named the officers involved in the
shooting. the police chief said both will be placed on critical incident leave. reporting live, fox
12 oregon.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 9 • 12:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_37

health officials have been studying trends in suicide during un reports on some of the findings
suicide is more prevalent in places where firearms are easiest to get arian that have more
gunshot eat you hydrate added Lead researcher Daniel steals Smith says the rise in social media
also is a likely factor that can be a place where everybody else looks like life it's a much better
whereas the individual may not feel that way you're in feel left out of work if I could be a trolley
other people and reducing access to methods of suicide narrows the chances at risk person will
die.
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 9 • 4:11 PM

B_SEP_WASH_38

this week is suicide prevention week. there are many events you can attend to learn more
about prevention ariellebrumfield is here with details on one of the events ariell that’s right lee,
today we visited a new exhibit called dead poets art at th petersonroth gallery in downto bend
and tomorrow afternoon art will be on display which will feature famo individuals who have
taken the own live the 2019 regional oregon health assessment reported that in 2017, centr
oregon saw the highest number suicides in the last 10 year the dead poets art exhibit seeks to
show the similarities and differences betwee both celebrities and everyday individuals who
share this struggle illustrating that success does not always equate to gratificatio the artist
nicola carpinelli has dealt with his own battle against suicide an shares why this exhibit is so
important. ### "i just feel like- that this show is important, its important that we approach it
from many angles as we can a that's why we have these professiononals here. i'm curious of
what is going to be said, i want to know too. think there are lot of different reasons why
someone might want to take their life, and we need to broaden that spectrum so we can
approach it from different angles. if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicide, please
visit our website at ktvz.com and click on the lets talk tab under the community ta you'll find a
list of resource you can call or text for help.

44

KONG-SEA
Sep 9 • 12:36 PM

B_SEP_WASH_39

hello. jimmy novak took off from dupont , washington to walk across america. this is a retired
veteran war the number 22 and walked that amount of miles each day. it signifies how many
veterans died by suicide daily in the country. five months and 3000 miles of later he's home and
he's here to tell us what he learned. what an accomplishment . >> thank you for having me on
your show today. >> we are grateful and honored to have you here. tell me a little bit about
how many steps you averaged a month? >> 1 million steps a month. >> what was the purpose ?
>> i was trying to raise awareness for veterans who are dying by suicide. it's a near and dear
cause to my heart. i've been anxious, depressed, and i've had a couple of episodes. , i decided
that i wanted to transition and help people get help. >> i come from a career military dad. and i
have seen people suffer in silence, a lot of people don't say nothing, and don't get help. it's an
epidemic of suicide. >> the numbers are really large, million people around the world died from
suicide. they all had stories they want to share, and they wanted to reach out and help me be
successful >> you find out were all connected. you made video diaries, i love to see these ,
that's the closest i'm going to get there was one that you reported.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 10 • 11:26 PM

B_SEP_OREG_44

prevention awareness week in central Oregon, and this week is suicide preven attend to learn
more about prevention. there are many events you can extension's hosting an event in
redmond call on wednesday at 6pm o-s-u ed 'stress less with mindfulness', where you can n
representative says mindfulness is a bralearn techniques to help reduce stress. an osu
extensiolpin science, and mindful breathing and movements can he be# nefit anyone going
through a hard time. ## new exhibit calledtomorrow afternoon in downtown bend, a 'dead
poets' will be on display at the peterson roth gallery. who took their own lives. it features
famous individuals the latest regional oregon health assessment reported central oregon saw
the highest number of suicides in the last 10 years in 20-17. and differences between the dead
poets art exhibit seeks to show the similarities both celebrities and everyday individuals who
share this struggle, always equate to gratifica illustrating success does not tion. tart
conversations stephanie sahleen says events like this are important to s about prevention, since
there's such a stigma around mental illness. ### ing because we really need to start talking
about "having events like this is amaz it if we want to see changethey need. so they can be free
of that and if we want to see people getting the help that sion or whatever is holding them back
or that deprestep up and we have to start feeling that they dont want to live anymore. we have
to s helping people and speaking about it about it and bringing awareness to our community." if
you or anyone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide, please visit our website at
ktvz.com.

45

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 4:47 PM

B_SEP_WASH_40

one of the things happen right away was my sister at the time as a medical student to drop the
pills I dropped the pills you're not working for you I did it in 3 to 4 days my outlook was
completely different so what I learned from this was my mom did not say on the phone you
can't do this she knew she couldn't stop me what she did was she moved forward to a deeper
she could have some control she bought herself some time she activated the family so if you're
thinking this in business and In your life for someone that you think might be considered suicide
ask them are you thinking of hurting yourself ask them are you thinking of killing yourself and
the trends from them do they have a plan I had one if they have a plan it's serious need to act
right I'm no expert but that's one thing I've learned so all ordered think my mom for that you
don't and it told the story on national radio few years ago and people said it was great and that
makes me sad that people think that's a brave thing to admit the shore one time that mindset
that shouldn't be a brave thing I think it's something that a lot of people should go no go
through and I think we should be O.K.C. Hayat face that demon down you can to of course
today's world suicide Prevention David I mean not everyone has the mindset to say I'm going to
tell a family member I'm going to do this run and recognize it for what it was after you went
through that Yeah I guess what I'm saying is there are people not everyone is going to make the
announcement and some people would say you didn't really intend to do if he made the
announcement maybe that's true if you see the signs and family members am asking asking do
you intend to hurt yourself like they're not eating is not giving away anything long as the way
things are the stocks gaining joy from things is to bring them joy you're noticing these signs
asked the question because people won't talk often asked the question they want to hide they
want to be strong and it was vin's strongest called the National suicide Prevention hotline.
KXLY (ABC)
Sep 10 • 6:11 PM

B_SEP_WASH_41

today is world suicide prevention day.suicide is currently the 10-th leading cause of deathn the
u- experts say some ways to prevent suicide include: reducing access to firearms and
medications. early care for the mentally ill, school-based interventions, and training health
workers to assess and manage suicidal behavior can help too. if you or someone you know is
struggling --call the number on your screen --to get connected with the national suicide
prevention lifeline... at 1-800-273-8255
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 7:08 PM

B_SEP_WASH_42

Here's a tough 3 things we need to discuss know what I just this is really important and so we're
gonna spend a ton of time on it but we wanted to leave the show off with something that
affects a so many of us and it's that today September 10th is world suicide Prevention day
according to the international Association for suicide Prevention suicide is responsible for
roughly 800000 deaths each year around the world that that is a staggering number and at the
46

risk of sounding too much a like an after school special Jay there there are things that each of
us can do if we notice someone might be having a hard time potential suicidal thoughts and
one of the huge ways to support a person who do you think might be considering suicide is to
just be present with them talk to them you don't need to be necessarily a professional if you
think that they might need professional help it's gotten that far please please do that but just
be a good friend a good listener trust your instincts you know follow your gut and and let me
just tell you it's so much better to reach out to someone then to avoid them because you're
afraid that you know they've been you might get the conversation wrong or that they have that
this isn't what they're going through I'm telling you and did its if they really big deal also be
around the person being gauge how they feel and and physically be near them if if possible and
so the other thing you can do here is and it's very important a lead them toward help the
National Action Alliance for suicide Prevention lifeline number is one 802.3 8 to 5 5 and they
also have there's a chat you can go if you want to do an online chat you can do the suicide
Prevention lifeline dot org slashed chat and all both of those things the phone line in the chat
our people ready to listen on the other line 24 7 suicide Unfortunately brother Maze has been
trending Unfortunely North has been going up Yes you know what I mean and sold me talk
about some of the trends right now on average the U.S. suicide rate increase 24% between
1999 and 2014 so it has gone up 24%.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 10 • 5:24 PM

B_SEP_WASH_43

today is suicide prevention day. suicide is one of the top-20 leading kaufgzs around the world.
top-20 leading causes of death around the world. >> reporter: after 40 seconds, someone in the
world loses their life to suicide. and here at home, it is also the second leading cause of death
for young people, starting at age ten. so we want to tell you about a local man behind an app to
help veterans. his name is aaron quinonez. and he's helped veterans with pvlt for many years
now. the app he created instantly connects people who are struggling. popping white smoke
means that they're circling. popping red smoke means there is a crisis and the squad has to
respond within minutes. >> i just reintroduced the idea of the squad back to these guys. and
that's one of the most valuable components to the app. >> the app's maker says the idea of the
squad works because being in the military, every member values the squad over themselves. so
they fight harder and longer so they won't let squad down. the if you would like to learn more
about the app, you can text the word "smoke" to 206-448-4545. you can rauls pass along the
national suicide prevention lifeline.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 10 • 4:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_45

happening today, it's world suicide prevention day. suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in
the u.s. and often referred to as a public health emergency. 47,000 americans died by suicide in
2017. since 1999, the suicide rate has climbed 33%. if you or someone you know is struggling,
there is always help available. look at your screen now. some numbers there. the national
lifeline is available 24/7.
47

KEZI (ABC)
Sep 10 • 6:17 PM

B_SEP_OREG_46

today marks a serious day of awareness -- september 10th is world suicide prevention day. the
international association for suicide prevention organizes the observance, along with the world
health organization. suicide is currently the 10-th leading cause of death in the u-s. experts say
some ways to prevent suicide include: reducing access to firearms and medications. early care
for the mentally ill, school-based interventions, and training health workers to assess and
manage suicidal behavior can help too.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 10 • 4:11 PM

B_SEP_OREG_47

a regional construction union is trying to prevent suicide after one of their own took his life in
2015. jeremy stahauski was fun and adventurous and training to become a welder. he started
to isolate himself slowly and he died at just 34 years old. the reason we are doing this story, it's
part of national suicide prevention week. morgan romero joining me this afternoon. morgan,
it's so important to do these stories really to break the stigma, but just get the conversation
going. >> exactly. the biggest point with breaking the silent story is that we do as media outlets
around the state of oregon is to open up a conversation to talk about it because mental health
and suicide is so deeply stigmatized in our nation. if you don't talk about it, the people that are
dealing with that aren't going to feel comfortable to open up. >> absolutely. let's highlight
jeremy's story today. >> yeah. >> an important one. did his family really see any warning signs
early on? >> it's so tough. as i mentioned, he was training to be a welder in an intensive
apprenticeship program at the local union 290. he was dealing with the stressors of that
program and also dealing with some personal stuff, but to answer your question, i sat down
with his cousin justin who said he knew that jeremy was struggling, butter just didn't quite see
how low he was. in hindsight and actually through battling something like that he looks back
and he goes okay, i saw some of these signs and in addition, he talked to somebody who was in
jeremy's apprenticeship program. this part broke my heart. he learned while jeremy was going
through that program he would kind of isolate himself at lunchtime. he would move away from
the gro and he would kind of sit on his own. justin said personally he would stop calling him as
much. so he had to make more of an effort. >> you were telling me before the show some of
the numbers with the construction industry specifically is startling. >> yeah. as we found out a
cdc study from last year studied 17 states and all these different occupations in those states
and found, in fact, that the highest rate of male suicide was in the construction and extraction
industry. so that includes what jeremy was studying to be, a welder in that union is the
plumbers and welders union. >> one good thing that did come of this is that jeremy's union
implemented it by a training program to help combat this issue. >> as soon as he took his own
life, which was completely unexpected in their eyes, they instantly reacted and implemented a
question persuade refer program, qpr, pretty well known across the country. they had a
professional come in. they now hold trainings twice a your for apprentices and members. it's an
hour and a half long training and people learn to just ask. you don't ask the questions straight
up are you considering suicide, it doesn't open the door for people to talk about it. >> that
48

leads us directly into this. some of the suicide warning signs you can see on your screen. can
you walk us through a few of those. >> the individual talks about wanting to die or looks for
ways to end their life. they talk about feeling hopeless like they're a burden to others or maybe
they feel trapped. they start using drugs and alcohol more. they withdraw from activities or
start isolating themselves from friends and family. maybe they're having extreme mood swings,
all of these coming from the american foundation for suicide prevention. of course, this isn't all
of them. we have a majority of them listed on our website www.kgw.com. >> sometimes it isn't
that obvious. >> no. >> it's just important to have this conversation. morgan, thank you for
sharing jeremy's story. if you or anyone you know is struggling or maybe having thoughts of
suicide, you can call the national suicide prevention feline, 1-800-273- 8255. it's available 24/7.
KOBI
Sep 10 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_48

today is world suicide awareness day, and 'jackson county health know there is help available.
recent studies have shown rural areas tend to have higher risk of suicide. here in southern
oregon, the suicide rate is increasing, according to jackson county health and human services."if
you do ask somebody and they say yeah they're thinking about suicide the first thing to do is
just to pause and listening. just talk with them, hear them out." nbc5 is partnering with jackson
county mental health to make suicide a topic of conversation through the 'in this together'
campaign. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help
available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800273-8255. you can also text the crisis line at 7-4-1-7-4-1.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 4:52 PM

B_SEP_WASH_44

today's world suicide Prevention David I mean not everyone has the mindset to say I'm going to
tell a family member I'm going to do this run and recognize it for what it was after you went
through that Yeah I guess what I'm saying is there are people not everyone is going to make the
announcement and some people would say you didn't really intend to do if he made the
announcement maybe that's true if you see the signs and family members am asking asking do
you intend to hurt yourself like they're not eating is not giving away anything long as the way
things are the stocks gaining joy from things is to bring them joy you're noticing these signs
asked the question because people won't talk often asked the question they want to hide they
want to be strong and it was vin's strongest called the National suicide Prevention hotline was
been strong it's asking for help that's all we can to give up almost think if you're a parent a
concern for owners of understand is you will pass that and you and your kids don't be selfish.

49

B_SEP_WASH_45

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 5:10 PM

recent studies show reports of depression and anxiety among teenagers on the rise in suicide
rates up as well almost carly Johnson spoke with a local expert on this world a suicide
prevention day forefront is a suicide Prevention Center at the University of Washington school
of social work and their hosting a conference today breed together a variety of Prevention
experts Dr. Jennifer stupor is the center director at forefront at the beginning of the current
combat the epidemic and I think we've got a ways to go at it and saved Danica fee hope she
says it's only been in recent history where people feel more comfortable talking about suicide
she wants us to think about it differently than we may have before about suicide and evident
affection and years and then like to buy it when they happened increase the rate of did guide
for others we have to start thinking about better surveillance and better the porch I want to
thank you kirk choose ob really biggest arrest she says understanding and really listen without
judgment is key to getting people to open up about their pain people go to do it stop do it as a
way to cope with their to strap them their P and people are thinking about their very deep pain
and we have to understand that top sought to blame not just to better job of listening and
reaching out to left and you care mind Lombard is a program coordinator with forefront she
lost her son 6 years ago a suicide she blames in part pressure on young people caused by social
media and the inability she says to just put that phone down really encouraging kids to live their
life span don't mind Ah Ah crib I cried and I don't I create a dapper not to the intermediary left
doctors tubers says the world suicide Prevention day provides an opportunity to perhaps talk
with your team or anyone you think may benefit and really listen again without judgment I'm
not trying to fix anything as were often prone to do the better approach is to the left and then
to to make clear that you're listening it true you know repeating back you heard tell your doctor
if you think about all that allocates some of them stay here he is expressing if you are
concerned about someone or struggling with your own thoughts the National suicide
Prevention lifeline is 802.3 8 to 5 5 or you can contact the crisis text line by texting 7 4 won 7 4.
KONG-SEA
Sep 10 • 8:33 AM

B_SEP_WASH_46

in the meantime there is a global movement today to prevent suicide. among the top 20
leading causes of death all around the world. today is world suicide prevention day. every 40
seconds someone in the world loses their life to suicide. here at home it's also the second
leading cause of death for young people starting at age 10. you want to tell you about a local
veteran behind an app that is helping veterans right now. he has helped veterans with ptsd for
years and the appy created is called operation. it instantly connects people and they build their
own squad popping white smoke means there struggling, popping red smoke means there is a
crisis in the squad has to respond to them within five minutes. >> introduced the idea of the
squad back to these guys. and that is one of the most value components of the up. >> that
makers says idea of the squad works because in the military every member values the squad
over themselves so they fight harder and longer because they don't want to let the squad

50

down. if you like to learn more about the app you can text the word smoke or you can pass
along the national suicide prevention line . that number is right here.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 10 • 6:41 AM

B_SEP_OREG_49

Tuesday marks a serious day of awareness, september 10th is world suicide prevention day.
suicide is the tenth leading cause of death in the u.s. but it's a global phenomenon. experts say
ways to prevent suicide include reducing access to firearms and medications. early care for the
mentally ill, school based interventions and training health workers to manage suicidal behavior
can help too.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 10 • 5:15 PM

B_SEP_WASH_47

today is suicide awareness day in u-dub medicine researcher amanda her Brat is highlighting
the success they've had a trial of a decades old Prevention technique they identified more than
650 active duty military personnel who were found to be at risk for suicide and sent them
regulars simple text messages to check on their well-being found that your contacts reduced
the odds that purchase Spence was ahead I have a suicide attempt during this year that we're
following not Cup Brad says it's a technique that anyone can use but it's important to
remember that caring contacts are about getting something back from the person or asking
them to do anything they're not saying let me know how today wet or tell me how you are it's
just saying I hope you're okay and I'm here I'm thinking about it hearing contact was first
developed by world war two veteran who became a psychiatrist and researcher into suicide
after the war.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 10 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_50

when justin and his family look back, they can see more clearly. >> he started excluding himself
from us, you know, and i think that's kind of where we're again not knowing, we should have
been reaching out to him more. i don't blame myself. i don't put much into anything like, that
but i do feel like there's a hole. >> i thought quite a bit of the individual and it was a tough loss
across the board. >> reporter: jeremy's passing pushed the union to step up. >> when that
happened, we were reactionary as probably most organizations or individuals are. >> reporter:
ua local 290 decided to hold suicide prevention trainings for their apprentices and members. >>
if everybody is aware of it, if a bigger group is aware of it, then the person that's in that
situation is going to get noticed. >> reporter: the union representing people who work with
pipes wants to knock down the stigma around mental health and suicide. >> it's a difficult
conversations we need to have sometimes that will remove that stigma. >> in the construction
industry where it's a male dominated industry and talking about your feelings is not something
that comes naturally, seeking help is not something that comes naturally among a group of
workers who are the helpers. >> reporter: their twice a year training covers three steps,
51

question, persuade, refer. >> you learn to ask to talk to, bring it up. a lot of people have a lot of
difficulty approaching somebody that they think may be having a problem. >> reporter: a cdc
study of 17 states found men who work in the construction industry have the highest rates of
suicide compared to other jobs. researchers say nailing down the exact role work might play in
suicide risk is complicated. so many life factors are at play, but those entrenched in the field
have some insights. >> it's really very intense, very, very high paced, h pressure work. >>
reporter: it's a trade that takes a physical toll, too. >> there is a cyclical nature to construction
work. so you'll have times of heavy, heavy hard work and then, you know, a layoff period. so
the inconsistency can create insecurity. >> reporter: the cdc says the workplace is a powerful
but unused place for suicide prevention efforts. >> i believe it's helping and i have heard from
people that said hey, i wasn't in a good place and that has helped. >> many people experience
depression. >> reporter: if you can reach someone struggling in these union halls -- >> together
we can create a culture of acceptance and support. >> i think it's huge. >> reporter: -- justin
feels they have a real opportunity to prevent another life lost to suicide. >> i think it's just
supporting somebody. it's just getting that support for them and getting them to know that
they aren't alone. >> just last year another apprentice took his own life, again rocking the
organization. justin says they're working to create a peer support group for apprentices and
local 290 hopes every organization and every single workplace will follow suit and be proactive
before they have to react and it's really about asking that tough question. it is tough, you know,
face to face asking someone are you considering suicide? >> along with that question i'm
assuming there are also some signs you can watch out for. >> yes. there are signs people
display, some warning signs, but not everyone does. however, good news is most do. here's
some of the warning signs from the american foundation for suicide prevention on your screen.
one, individuals talk about wanting to die or look for ways to end their life. they talk about
feeling hopeless, like they're a burden to others or maybe they feel trapped. they start using
drugs and alcohol more. they withdraw from activities or start isolating themselves from friends
and family. maybe they're having extreme mood swings. there are others you can look for. we
have those listed in this story on www.kgw.com. someone you love is thinking about suicide,
please, please reach out for help. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline, the
number on your screen 1-800- 273-8255 or text 273 talk to 839863. >> so key in all of this,
morgan, is the union stepping up and saying we don't want this to happen again. >> exactly. we
have to prevent another one because the workplace is often an underutilized space for people
to try to effort suicide prevention. if you can get people where they are where they spend most
of their days, you can really make a difference.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 10 • 5:24 PM

B_SEP_OREG_51

a eugene nonprofit is out with a new website tonight.. to help teens who might be struggling
with suicide or depression. why they say it's different than others... nextt i called aspen dental
because i had a dental emergency. they assessed it right away. we're going to get you out of
pain right now and be able to keep the tooth because that was really important to me. she sat
down, "this is what we're looking at financially, can you work with this?" she didn't try to focus
on anything that was unnecessary. she's like "let's get you comfortable now." that was being
52

treated royally. at aspen dental, we're all about yes. like yes to payments on your timeline not
ours. yes to zero down and zero interest. and yes, we're all about the royal treatment. call or
book online at aspendental.com i mean, if you haven't thought about switching to geico,
frankly, you're missing out. uh... the mobile app makes it easy to manage your policy, even way
out here. your marshmallow's... get digital id cards, emergency roadside service, even file a...
whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa! oops, that cheeky little thing got away from me. my
bad. geico. it's easy to manage your policy whenever, wherever. can i trouble you for another
marshmallow? attempt suicide... at the beginning of the school year. and one nonprofit in
eugene wants to help. in tonight's health alert: today is national suicide prevention day. youth
era has a new website for young people... created by young people. it's called "youth
empowerment dot com." and, it looks more like an instagram feed... with its colors and
animations. the idea is to help with anxiety, depression, relationship struggles... offering coping
strategies and ways to help friends and family. with articles like "what to do when a friend is
thinking of suicide". again, the website is "youth empowerment, dot com."
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 10 • 7:36 PM

B_SEP_OREG_52

I was reading about this guy 41 year-old Canadian guy sean Tiger he was killed by assisted
suicide after health officials decide to cut funding for his home in home care mr taggert
suffered from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or A.L.S. and his illness it reduced visibility to move
his body heat or speak power his mental awareness remain unaffected doctors recommended
24 hour in home support for Ted however Vancouver coastal health initially only offered
tattered 15.5 hours of care a day was then raised to 20 hours a day meeting attacker was
forced to pay two winners _sixty_ _three_ dollars and 50 cents a day for the remaining cared he
survived one social media attacker wrote status which is playing that to Vancouver coastal
health officials visit his home and confirmed they were cutting funding for is already inadequate
care AP hours after receiving this news attacker wrote number devastating social media
statuses which read quote so last Friday I officially submitted my medically assisted death
paperwork with lawyers and doctors everything isn't proper order spent months is submitted
by appealed the bank or coastal help patient care quality Department they didn't even respond
welcome to the greatest it health care ever the great Canadian healthcare system Mr. Tiede
was killed by isis suicide on August 6th announcement said a candid as some of the most
sinister euthanasia laws assisted suicide glasses even those without a terminal illness or those
suffering from mental illnesses are also eligible could Apple builds will be killed by medically
assisted death so since Canada legalize euthanasia 2016 there are at least 6007 49 cases
medically assisted deaths over a 103 dead in the first 6 months of legalization Twitter 2018 such
candidacy the nation figure soared to 3000 over 3000 canadians killed but doctors in England a
poll was taken it showed nearly half of the british population is concerned the the option of
anyone's life was made legal some people would feel pressured into killing themselves so they
do that for a moment you know there's a difference between saying to your doctor I have a
terminal illness Mike court my quality of life has gone down the tubes help me God or give me
the opportunity to die and that's a choice because of the fact that your term Neil you're going
to pay but in the case of tag heat he was sane enough and and coherent enough to write on
53

Facebook ago they turned me down they basically cut my fun so Yes I have to commit suicide I
have to have a doctor help me died you can afford visit nor you know northern give me the
times is going to come in and say I'm sorry but all the all the chairs used up he can't see
anymore cares what do you do about it well I guess and forced to do whatever I need to do that
is all assigned my papers and you can kill me See that's what worries me I don't these Green
deal type of things are coming up with because you know they're trying to find a way to create
a socialist health care system and I remember back when they were laughing they released
talking about death and House the tea party has also brought death panels and sarah palin was
all over the death count stuff and basically they were say brock obama didn't care about the old
lady let them die and that is what the obama care was you know basically assisting in suicides
all this other stuff.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 10 • 8:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_53

Everyone knows you know people in and in canada no the they have some of the more sinister
a euthanasia laws assisted suicide laws even those without a terminal illness or anyone
suffering from mental illness they can check out and they can go and say look I'm tired of life I
just want to die I says Canada legalize euthanasia 20s 16 there have been at least 6749 cases of
medically assisted deaths over reagan and 3 dead in the first 6 months of legalization 2018 such
Canada's euthanasia figures shore with over 3000 canadians killed by their doctors and england
they took a poll and they thought they would be with found that nearly half of the british
population is concerned if the option of anyone's life was made legal heir some people would
feel pressured to telling themselves because of what they're being told about global warming
carbon footprints and sustainability of has become increasingly evident this suicide laws could
lead to a vulnerable people seeing suicide as a treatment options so as not to be a burden
dollars or even a burden on the environment and it's disturbing thought.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 10 • 7:30 AM

B_SEP_OREG_54

Sandberg is currently in the Marion county jail on half a million dollars bond. an officer-involved
shooting left a person dead in long view. that is where there was report of someone with a
weapon as witnesses described as suicidal. they saw the person holding a weapon but have not
said what it was. officers called in a swat team. two swats officers fired their weapons killing the
person. they have not said why they opened fire. the name of the person is not released. but
neighbors say his behavior was out of character. >> he was a good night. very nice, very loving.
all hugging on his kids, hugging his wife. i kept calling him trying to get him to come out and
negotiate. he wouldn't come out.

54

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 4:30 PM

B_SEP_WASH_48

it is world suicide Prevention day which brings me to this about 25 years ago I decided to kill
much and sold decisions something and made I even made the decision so solve my mind I
thought I could call my mom and convince my mom she's got some good idea should probably
do That a good call my mom I did so I decided to kill myself Here's what she said in she said look
why should put an undercount want to put the day you're going to kill yourself on your account
conversation didn't end there because I'm here but if you want to hear exactly why she said
that what she did to follow up and how it helped me make the decision to not kill myself.
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 10 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_49

September is suicide prevention awareness month... and today is world suicide prevention day.
according to the national alliance on mental illness --- suicide is the third leading cause of death
for people between the ages of 10 to 24. briseida holguin talked with a mother who lost hed is
using her own heartbreak.... to bring about awareness. tom died when he was 16 years old, he
died by suicide. he was funny, he was intelligent, he was nerdy, but in a good way. it's been four
years since tom passed and since then his mother kimberly starr has committed herself to
bringing awareness to suicide. i ended up leaving teaching theatre so i could be self employed
and teach suicide prevention as much as possible. kimberly says her goal is to make it safe for
people to talk about suicide and to teach others how to address this topic, something she
wishes she would of known earlier. a really good example is about a year before tom died, a
man that i worked with died by suicide, and i sat right at that dinning room table and i said,
'now tom tom you're not going to do anything dumb like that right? and he said, 'of course not
mother. after tom died kimberly discovered her son had actually been thinking about suicide
for years... so instead of saying to him, 'tom are you thinking about suicide or tom have you
ever felt that despondent? i said tom you're not going to do anything stupid like that right? i
told him the answer to tell me. i told him to tell me no because it would be stupid for you to do
that and the truth is that is not the case so teaching people to talk appropriately i truly believe
is going to save lives. since sharing her sons story kimberly says it's not only helped her heal but
also others. i have people who call me, email me, message me, facebook me, and say that
because you're telling your story something positive has happened in my life. when i speak i
talk about that i can live on knowing that tom lives on in others and doing this work has been
really important in my own healing journey, you don't ever get over the loss of a child. kimberly
was at a event earlier today spreading this same message and she tells me this is something she
does every day because it's all about spreading awarness...bh nbc right now... and please
remember -- there is help available, anytime you need it. if you or someone you know needs
someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is
on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.

55

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 6:47 AM

B_SEP_WASH_50

for the people who've fight wildfires the dangers of the job can linger long after the flames go
out state and federal agencies say the upcoming off-season could become life-threatening
situation for some more and more of the firefighters take their own lives Kyrillos aaron don't
examine the alarming trend on this National suicide Prevention day when george gets started
his career fighting forest fires in the mid 80s crew members seldom discussed mental health in
wildland firefighting padded their fully problem we're very much killing type of an organization
but dad did what did you all just learned now wants to change the culture as Washington state
forester he oversees the state's largest on coal-fired squad within the Department of natural
resources is physically and mentally exhausting work oftentimes they spend 16 or more hours
in the day battling flames and rugged terrain most spending weeks if not months away from the
comfort of their family and friends said no O boat and go with a greatly handover I have a loft
well very beautiful rooms and if not you have succumbed to that depression there are no solid
statistics on wildland firefighters suicide because federal agencies don't track that's that
happened off the job but it has become a major concern among the highest ranks of the
country firefighting community and things like that and the pack up and now more than ever
known and one I first started Yeah Unfortunately that sean look Garzon national director of fire
and aviation management for the U.S. Forest service she has reason for the rise in suicide
unclear though some speculate longer and tougher wildfire seasons maybe affecting their
mental well being a lot of time firefighters that I am Yeah man I don't want to admit that there
feeling a certain way I feel like you get I will help the guards this is that's what happened to her
husband Mark moment Max they met in 2001 at ground zero as part of the first team of
wildland firefighters to help with 9 11 recovery efforts but carson says that was one of the
many tragedies that weight on his mental health he took his own life 7 years later at the age of
40 minutes moment Max never sought professional help now with Kanaan our firefighting all
sure to be able to give tools that are not just product declined spray water give them emotional
intelligence infoation plan to move the younger aged to be able to be prepared for the life of
one of our the Garza who earned a PhD in psychology after her husband's suicide says things
can get especially tough when the season ends firefighters lose come Rodr Re a paycheck and
the rush of be on the fire line gave the binds knows that feeling it's a degree of anxiety for
everybody is going to be different however fro the Press Yes I have Baez who is with the
Department of natural resources now started his firefighting in Lacey nearly 30 years ago but
says help only started to trickle down a few years back that twin DNR started getting its crews
preparing his guide that focus on mental health the Department also takes part in training
sessions to cope with stress management so you know one of the flags more of the signs and
talk and we noticed those things before it's too late or defuse the mentality of depression
possible suicide in our addiction to alcohol and drugs coming off season by is says the first step
is breaking down the stigma of being that tough pull yourself up by your bootstraps firefighter
something the wildland firefighter Foundation preaches the support group based at of ight now
offers professional guidance helping struggling firefighters get the help they need Mark months
is director of outreach is they really That have been harboring it for a long time and now fear
for those people and realizing that not weeks anyway he just needs to be right in your body
56

mind and spirit to do his job so aaron this is the sound like PTSD is because of the fires
themselves or worse for example seeing hundreds of people lose their homes Yeah I think it's
it's a range of factors but it is certainly PTSD and preparedness guides the DNR now provides
they they talk about PTSD and and some of the warnings signs to look out for them whether it's
seen before it's come down whether it's seen buildings burn or perhaps losing one of your
fellow firefighters on the fire line Yeah there are a range of factors that can lead to the feeling
in the off-season and I imagine two firefighters are you ting care homes here you know not in
the wildlands also in a 9.1 dispatcher certain extent to you know we think about the fires we
often forget about they're going inside finding people who have passed away and fire to use of
that too could have an affect on the psyche sure your shot of the guards of the woman who
runs the fire agency now she brought up dispatchers as well because that's often times yearround job as well they're doing with it constantly this the trauma and and that I believe is called
secondary PTSD a rare you're not seeing or directly impacted by the tragedy that happening but
you're hearing about it you're imagining it and and that is just as real as PTSD is is and his push
for real Yeah indeed this is a national suicide Prevention danged if you're struggling or
contemplating anything the National suicide Prevention lifeline as 100 to 7.8 to 5 5.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 10 • 6:10 AM

B_SEP_WASH_51

global movement to prevent suicide which is among the 20 leading causes of death around the
world. >> today is world suicide prevention day and michelle li is here with details about a new
effort specifically to help veterans. >> right. every 40 seconds someone in the world loses the
right to suicide. here at home is also the second leading cause of death for young people
starting just at age 10. we want to tell you about a local veteran behind into app to help. his
name is eric kenyon ace and he has help veterans with ptsd for years. the app he created is
called operation pot smoke in the instantly connect people who are struggling. they build their
own squad and when they are feeling down they can pop smoke which is something they were
trying to do when -- popping white smoke means they are struggling but red smoke means
there is a crisis and the squad has to respond within a matter of minutes. >> i just reintroduced
that idea to the squad back to these guys. and that is one of the most valuable components to
the app. >> there is so much to say but the apps maker says that idea works because in the
military every member values the squad over themselves. so they fight harder and longer so
they won't let the squad down. if you would like to learn more about the app you can text the
word smoke to 206-448- 4545 and we will send you a link . also you can pass along the national
suicide prevention lifeline which is right there. the number is one 802 73 8255.
News Radio KEX
Sep 10 • 7:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_55

Let's talk about suicides but there but the what there are some thing is mental health is there
are red flag that's because their controlling it because we are not leading we're playing defense
in Trump saying he wants them know in the moment and not exactly the flag bearer for any
look who bullet who put background checks in the first place the part of the breed me the NRA
57

and the NRA was the one who designed the background check system okay they designed the
system and I'm fine with this system I'm totally fine with the system the NRA a or the gun
advocates need to lead the way not on very legislate not those of less legislation but hours
what actually will make a difference I don't know what but it has something to do with mental
health and not just finding people with mental health there is something wrong with our
society and we we had we had guns before you know when you look just just take the suicides
out and our guns are not a problem like they even used to be just take suicide the suicides are
through the roof.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 10 • 8:39 PM

B_SEP_OREG_56

…so you think that what happened out there with your tag is something will happen in the
future we decide to allow the you revealed a half that's what I want these Canada I think it's
kind of a model they think they were going to be convinced we want we can do is what we
want course a lot of canadians will feel that way it's somewhat want so mr taggert why did you
want to live but they couldn't help but so he's well obviously I have no other choice but to die
so we had to sign away his life and that was it and of course are people like Mr. Wolf who wrote
in the New Yorker that with new York magazine Xi want my mum to dock ices had dementia
and a lot of people insured through this stuff part of their lives they should die we are putting
up big trillion $ a burden on the system but there are others out there saying we know why it
they should do the right thing for older and allies are kind of going nowhere we should just go
have euthanasia clinic we going to commit suicide allow doctor-assisted suicide so relieve the
burden on me Yeah on the planet that I mean it's just insane what we're hearing here age 7.7
3.1 0.1 tape 7.7 3.1 0 one once but Earnest in Pennsylvania higher stronger 0 did you think it is
for our top pick about the government tell us to try whole life away it it I invited the baby calls
rigged and a soul you can use that dog need a crop about land like that then God be me I'm in
God's hands I cannot I want the government cumbersome bureaucratic a threshold of color
make your point there is time for it to get the bucket I know that I'm telling him no good time it
was time to take the bucket they said well we don't have the funds to keep you alive to have a
choice either supper course sign your life we will help you God your dad bad johnny depp what
you care if you live or die that's not the point the point is this guy wanted to live but apparently
could afford to learn _fifty_ _three_ $ a day they keep it and cared for his House and so be the
guys can be Estate was 1007 maybe you should consider assisted suicide because you're not
able to afford to live and you're going to die a very painful horrible slow death so it's best to get
it out of the way because we can't afford it anymore but that's not the government's role to do
it and they have done their job their system that that's that's that's a good that crazy he got like
halos Shane I mean it's you know she is knowing this fight they were like T the best generation
ever on you if you're talking about earlier about what generation played against the dollar our
younger players in the old her dowdy I think that that that creepy in sorry grandma could move
over you know I move over the they they actually had a passage to be getting a generational
warfare where the young people demanded the old people just check in check out it because
your bird society so the the had to fight for their lives our feel otherwise I know is deplete its
way it can be having 2022 was when this story supposedly takes place we're already suggesting
58

that we eat crickets and bugs at all this and then somebody else suggesting well we are human
beings was so great beings they euthanized human beings they put them in crackers couldn't
put clinton and crackers WhatsApp ball that could have Peed a double they did in the book but
then it was said that people voluntarily checked out so those for other bird society were being
Fed to the other people has a population explosion because of global warming and greenhouse
gases It's everything we're talking about now he said is happening in 2019 the storage place in
2022 how far are we from the Soylent Green deal that's what I want to know because this is
what it looks like it was read that story today the attackers story today I thought my God this is
just like you know the governor stepping in and saying look your burden on us we're just going
to put our hands in the air you do you want do you guys as well obviously my care for my son
my life away so did he send his life point of scary so I saw it ever take our art imitates life life
imitates art well it's kind of for eugenics you think about the guy had A.L.S. so you know it's kind
of like a low on the totem pole for now is the Wow I announce horrible us thanks thank you
jackie california your ground zero all mandatory euthanasia I don't think that far-fetched but
and trophy way we live in a society that tolerated approximately 40 million abortion law holes
so why would you think that he had been promoted Roe v Wade and abortion well why would
you think that the far left and what he considered mandatory youth the nation I don't throw it
out because see I used to think they wouldn't think that abortion is one of those things that
happened I mean it's like I've grown up with being a necessary evil meaning that at times
abortion maybe necessary the in is in the case of rape or incest or the baby will dir the mother
will die there are a lot of things that we need to consider but using it as a form of birth control
that's kinda sick and in in and actually using the form of birth control of 24 weeks is even more
deplorable and so the idea of your to understand if you start looking at the far left not a potion
left but I mean newt better basically atheist atheist Communist they are devoid of compassion
now Let's talk about another movie knowing movie they made a movie brave new world often
booked by our family and I They did Yeah and I'm not sure how true of these worked on this
movie that was about 1977 one was movie was to the book but the movie celebrated a culture
viewed and we use started to pay each state would put you to sleep or mandatory euthanasia
right and Um you know they've they've brought out game big time art director from new York
to do the theft with this movie was going to be released in theaters but now that never was fin
it was only shown that the movie made for TV and that turned out to be a big flop but it it did
have an interesting met H and that we're doing tonight I also want to bring up the point that
there's degrees for folks who thought it Square IPO incremental suicide and most sober for
some degree are suicidal because we all do things during a light that our whole tour held in the
short term like they're in the most recent example they've been right was talking about they
think Yeah I think it's something important to consider in well you know what you this sound
like to me I remember back in the Tylenol scare happened it was a way to get people to put
caps on these things I have a feeling we're dealing with that right now we're dealing with no
home maybe someone who has a problem with vaping and is decided to put something in the
oils that people of faith and you just that one of the lucky ones have been breathing in and get
it and you die you might be ready correct on this because client people been vaping for years
and years and all of a sudden they're getting sick or dying the company changed the Formula is
somebody put something in the product I don't know I know why they don't rule out terrorism I
know why they don't rule out the idea that someone is doing this because they want people to
59

stop big big word is some other company that's doing what they call a corporate terrorism a
corporate terrorism happens all the time there's a company that basically they want to see
ruined they going to do something to ruin the the stock prices dip and they what was their done
that's why you see here a lot about things that he called lion peanut butter and hear about food
recalls because something happens were some just happens to sabotage of food process and
they did they did this in Israel wants one shot Mercurio oranges and they did it for a day they
did said the budget palestinians that israeli children so I don't think he'll want to make an
observation about the movie soylent Green Sir because it made a big impression on me when I
first thought when I came out the Gators sugar and that a winning Edward G Robinson decided
to commit suicide right I went into a facility run by the fake that was like going into a movie
theater movement and he did that back in the theater they eat they have done on the screen of
a film of flowers for Mount Wilson beautiful music in the background right and given the kind of
cocktail to put them to sleep and went out very peacefully right and I thought that the reason
why he committed suicide because the movie it was a very hard life they they had that
intermittent electricity are intermittent water there was no hot water for other words huge
inflation food was scarce…
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_52

as we near the end of the wildfire season the danger goes up for firefighters ever radio earned
adele explained It's become a major concern at both the federal and state level wildland
firefighters taking their own lives during the offseason brian bloopers but the state Department
of natural resources he says when the flames go out some firefighters can develop PTSD day
loser co-moderated lose that sense of purpose and I think that's when you start seen this
increase of these firefighters during the offseason blooper says the an artist taking action by
providing preparer his guide teaching about stress management the department also is actively
developing appears support program and remember the National suicide Prevention line is one
802.3 8 to 5 5.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 8:50 PM

B_SEP_WASH_53

on this world suicide Prevention day Blue lives matter N.Y.C. is remembering the NYPD officers
whose lives have been lost two suicides this year we hit a listen we're here to support you
Staten Island Assemblyman Michael Reilly was among those who rally outside city hall last night
to remind men and women in Blue that suicide is a drastic decision they can't be reversed
haired get your help unique 9 active duty officers and retired police sergeant have taken their
own lives so far this year twice as many as in all 2018 I asked a nationally known depression
expert in Seattle Dr. Gregory chance whether that's an epidemic absolutely it's an epidemic
could affect run often time the group and clusters the National suicide Prevention lifeline
number is 102.3 8 to 5 5.

60

KMTR (NBC)
Sep 11 • 6:51 PM

B_SEP_OREG_57

this week is national suicide prevention week. the reports are stating that there seeing an
increase since 2000. that there is a nonprofit that focuses on providing michael to young and
the youth in oregon and several other states she mixes the story of the founder and ceo what
drove him to start this nonprofit and why he is surprised that the services have last for over 10
years. >> before, i really truggle with a lot of trauma. in my background and i had serious
depression, i had suicidal ideation. i had untreated trauma. >> here calls turning to internet for
help but not finding anything. the founder and ceo a few area is celebrating 10 years of bringing
mental health resources to use in oregon and across the country. >> i never thought we will
make it this far. i always thought that the need for service like ours was going to disappear. and
now it's so wrong about that. >> that's because at one point, suicide was the cond leading
cause of death for oregon residents age 15 to 24. suicide nearly took his life twice. >> just
having that experience, i know what it feels like to have this thought. to be alone. and to file
there's no option. there's no other option. >> now he focuses his efforts in creating online
support that forms such as the website youth empowerment that come and having but they'll
depression for the years he says -- >> you can move on and you can create a better life for
yourself. >> and local nonprofit helping youth all over the united states. >> online support
specialist to say a good way to help ease the feelings of self-rm is by doing something active
and you can always turn to your support webpage that's youth empowerment.com. or drop by
there one of their locations they have several in lane county and across the united states. >>>
lane county public health is set to host a conference addressing suicide prevention and mental
well-being later this month. the mind your mind is open to the community and promint
speakers on the topic. organizers say the goal of the conference is to increase understanding
about mental wellness across the lifespan and the connection to our overall health. >>> we are
going to be doing is developing some of those ways to talk to people about their mental health
and how to promote mental health. as a community, as a society. are we really asking the right
questions and i remodeling tha i prefer people. >> the mind your mind conference is september
25th to the 27. for information about the conference and registration details, visit our website,
nbc16.com.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 11 • 5:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_58

mental health and risk of suicide led Oregon lawmakers to pass a slew of legislation this year
students now can take days off for their mental health and school districts will receive money
to planned school based health centers but some larger pieces of legislation are going into
effect next year including one focusing on preventing student suicides pd education reporter
elizabeth Miller is here to talk about the legislation and House school districts are faring when it
comes to suicide Prevention analyst and so what is this legislation we're talking about Yes so
what the legislation are talking about here is called add these accidents named for a student
who died by suicide and it requires districts to have a plan for students suicide Prevention
which should include Prevention and intervention activities methods to address high-risk
61

groups like you with disabilities for lgbt q students and training for school employees you know
up until now organs in one of 3 States in the country that doesn't have a requirement for these
types of plans and a lot of school districts still don't have these Prevention plans in place yet so
what schools doing now for students that are at risk for suicide it really varies as some schools
have a protocol some schools donate it really just depends and in talking to counselors who
some of whom have hundreds of students under their belt a student crisis takes priority and so
when that happens some other parts of the job don't get done and so with these plans for
suicide prevention plans the goal is to streamline the process for when you talk with people at a
couple different districts that already have these plans at work what they have to say and what
kind of advice they have 4 districts that are going to be implementing them in the future Yes I
talked to some school districts that were pretty large Salem Kaiser the mother smaller ones like
can be mounted Angel and suicide is really affected their students and their communities and
so they not only have the plans they have curriculum they've trained teachers His staff even bus
drivers on a system called question persuade refer which helps people understand the warning
signs of suicide and as far as advice goes the District's said that no matter who's leading the
charge on these plans whether it's Council error director of student services they need support
and they need resources by that time or money to get these plans together but also to do them
and they also warned that in some communities there's still a stigma Associated with suicide
that districts might have to deal districts are going to be the ones implementing these plans
help prevent students suicide but the state is overseeing the whole project what are they up to
Yes so the education Department has a meeting this week to talk about the rules that go along
with the loss so the technicalities and what they're going to require districts when they create
these suicide Prevention plans on the health side of things because suicide as a health issue as
well of course the Oregon health authority has a state plan that they created in 2016 and they
just received dedicated funding for the first time for the plan at to the tune of about 17 million
dollars that money will help the organ health authority higher second youth coordinator
dedicated suicide Prevention as well as plans to start working on an adult prevention plan
thankless tasks Elizabeth Miller is the PD's education reporter tomorrow we'll check in with an
official from Washington state about their efforts to repair schools for students at risk of suicide
both of these conversations are part of breaking the silence it's an effort by news organizations
across Oregon to change the way we talk about public health crisis of death by suicide for more
stories and resources visit breaking the silence along art Dotcom.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 10 • 10:17 PM

B_SEP_WASH_54

I will see you there my friend what's so would get together and iced your veterinarian about
trade and I wanted to ask you about this story that broke a couple weeks ago it says spending
all day surrounded by dogs and cats probably sounds like kevin for most people but a new study
finds that veterinarians and others who work with animals on a daily bases deal with stressful
and emotional events that put them at a higher risk of developing mental health conditions
such as depression anxiety in some cases suicidal thoughts as you heard that before a well yet
appreciate george then arian make a mistake listening medical doctors at the end of course
when you have suicidal thoughts will be a mass shooter mass murderer you're going to
62

contribute to a domestic violence in this May you're deficient and certain nutrients and then
arian deserve them Susceptible to that through and move those things we're again I think that
the dinner and she goes another veterinarian others sick rather than go to a medical doctor
what classes this depression as the isn't the sadness of maybe having to euthanize animals
something like out no Sir it's factually deficient give a single nutrient actually have in my book a
rare earth insurers and chapters sticks and pays 97 me abstract the article was written and
1978 pollution like 3 different century Journal we looked at 27 counties in texas it then they all
had to join each other and Handel reloaded these are the most violent people in America mass
shootings suicide and domestic violence and or Angel on Earth and what we did was look at the
water supplies County water supplies of these people and one that had that violent behaviors
mass shootings serial killers suicide with domestic violence and child abuse these had very low
or none of this nutrient them in their drinking water and the ones who had not that they were
an Angel on Earth the adjoining counties in her and naturally eat in their water systems had
enormous amount of this one nutrient now this if it was first used.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 11 • 6:49 AM

B_SEP_OREG_59

suicide is the second leading cause of death for young people tend to 24 years old here in
oregon often times it's charts with a teenager's Drug Hall abuse and some mental health issues
he excels as mayor I don't talk with an expert about the problem and what we can do about it
paul bryant is addiction medicine program director for Kaiser Permanente take I asked what's
the connection between drugs alcohol and thoughts of anyone's life and young people are
often struggling with not be able to regulate their emotions they got things going on their life
experience trauma those are all predictors suicide risk in addition to that other predictors of
substance use and when young people feel out of control one way they can feel in control this
team substances that make them feel different and I think those two things go hand in hand
and I've certainly seen a lot of youth and notable youth they completed suicide risk was
magnified by the substance use I think it used to be even more extreme mom and dad are
usually the ones to pick up on the fact that something's wrong identifying kids' better middle
school they're having significant suicidal ideation and may start to experiment with drugs and
alcohol for where the depression and suicide really they're already you're self-medicating
substances I think another way it can go this is their partying having fun and then gets out of
control and they've got that propensity for addiction which is literally a lack of impulse control
breeze too much and you have all these negative consequences if we had 50 students in this
room and they all had an addiction issue how many of the 5th Gee whiz you stay put even fake
of ending their lives would even think of suicide I would say probably all of them would have
thought at some point to varying degrees I would say probably about half of them thought
pretty seriously about it and maybe knows somebody who has either attempted suicide or
completed suicide Paul says parents can and should I ask their family doctor to assess a child for
suicide risk it they're worried about the research shows us is that we need to ask these
questions directly to use we don't I get in Yes Sir rounding up question that we ask them
straight away and never have thought of not waking up hurting yourself we're Rosemary

63

Reynolds Afghan news one no one want to make sure that we add if you do know someone in
crisis lying for life can help 24 7.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 11 • 6:13 PM

B_SEP_OREG_60

all this week we've been bringing you stories about youth mental health and suicide. it's all part
of an unprecedented statewide media partnership that we've been part of since april. >> deb:
but katu news has been talking about youth mental health for almost a year now. it's part of
our station project, "kind is better." katu's genevieve reaume shows us how the multiplatform.
>>> proper is making waves. >> you'll see that green countdown, that's counting us down as to
when the next element is going to hit. >> that's so cool. >> it's pretty awesome. >> i just
realized there are only 15 more fridays till christmas! just in case you wanted to give me an
early christmas present. >> genevieve: amanda, better known as ice with live 95.5, knows pop
maybe as well as the queen of pop. so she knows what's popular. >> there's times where i'm
like, okay, call me right now, how were you kind today? >> genevieve: and she wants people to
realize, kind is cool. >> that's why i think radio is still important, because there's that
connection. >> genevieve: she's making waves over the air. >> i want people to feel good, be
happy. >> genevieve: and in person. >> say lay guys! >> genevieve: she's a part of the "kind is
better" youth advisory board. working with kids to spread kindness in the community. just a
few weeks ago they all stuffed backpacks for students at it ison elementary. >> we were stuffing
backpacks, over 400 full of school supplies, folders, pens, pencils. >> genevieve: nearly a year
has passed since we launched the "kind is better" campaign. in this second year -- >> we want
to do more action. we want to start doing more of the kindness we were trying to make people
aware about the first year. >> genevieve: because the best gift is kindness. and you don't need
to rap that. >> it doesn't cost anything. and smiling at somebody could change somebody's day.
>> genevieve: genevieve reaume, katu news. >> deb: you can see this story and all the other
ones we've put together for breaking the silence as well as stories from other media outlets at
breaking didthesigh denseor.com. tomorrow we're showing parents a technique that can help
them repair strained relationships with your kids. what you can do when you want to talk with
your kids but the conversations run dry or they won't engage. how can you break with through,
that story tomorrow at 8:00. >> steve: a 2013 study from the oregon health authority showed
suicide was the second leading cause of death in oregon residents ages 14-25. the group youth
era focuses on helping youth going through suicidal thoughts by using several platforms
including the internet. this year they're celebrating 10 years of providing mental health
services. >> traditional systems have a lot of reasons why they can't just go online why they
can't transfer over to the social media platforms that are risen. so we are doing more now than
i ever thought would be possible. >> steve: he says he started youth era after his own
background with depression and untreated trauma. >>> the real i.d. deadline is looming, and
oregon is waybehind. in this week's following the money report, keaton thomas told us the
state may not have enough time to get everyone the i.d. by october of 2020. tonight at 6:30,
keaton thomas is live on katu's facebook page to answer your questions and hear what you
think about oregon's handling of its real i.d. program. you can join that conversation live on
facebook in just about 13 minutes.
64

KMVU (FOX)
Sep 10 • 10:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_61

today is world suicide awareness day, and 'jackson county health and human services' wants
you to know there is help available. recent studies have shown rural areas tend to have higher
risk of suicide. here in southern oregon, the suicide rate is increasing, according to jackson
county health and human services."if you do ask somebody and they say yeah they're thinking
about suicide the first thing to do is just to pause and listening. just talk with them, hear them
out." if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available.
you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255.
you can also text the crisis line at 7-4-1-7-4-1.
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 10 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_124

September is suicide prevention awareness month... and today is world suicide prevention day.
according to the national alliance on mental illness --- suicide is the third leading cause of death
for people between the ages of 10 to 24. we talked with a mother who lost her son and is using
her own heartbreak.... to bring about awareness. four years kimberly starr lost her son tom by
suicide. since then she has made it her goal spread awareness and teach others how to address
this topic, something she wishes she would of known earlier. a really good example is about a
year before tom died, a man that i worked with died by suicide, and i sat right at that dining
room table and i said, 'now tom tom you're not going to do anything dumb like that right? and
he said, 'of course not mother. after tom died kimberly discovered her son had actually been
thinking about suicide for years...by sharing her sons story she has been able to educate and
heal. and please remember -- there is help available, anytime you need it. if you or someone
you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline.
that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 10 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_55

today is world suicide prevention day. it's the 10-th leading cause of death in the u-s.> in
benton county, 24 people have taken their lives this year. two in franklin county. there are
many resources that can help those struggling, including local ones. the tri-cities offers a 24-7
crisis center through lourdes. (cameron fordmeir/lourdes crisis center "it's something that we
need to really work on increasing awareness and decreasing that stigma to where you do need
help and something is going on, you're having a mental health challenge or a mental health
problem, that you're able to speak about that without fear of stigma or being ridiculed.") later
this month, a suicide prevention walk will be held in the tri-cities. the "walk about to talk
about" will feature speakers who can shed light on the issue. if you work in the tech industry or
merely interested in tech and entrepreneurship... the tri-cities tech summit is happening
thursday. it's a conference for technology professionals and innovators to come together and
learn more about what's happening in the tri-cities specifically. attendees will get to hear from
65

seasoned leaders and network with others in the industry. the conference is happening at the
uptown theatre in richland. you can register online or at the door...we'll put a link on our
website.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 11 • 11:06 PM

B_SEP_WASH_56

world suicide prevention day. more than 20 veterans tie by suicide every single day. >>
reporter: more than 37,000 veterans live in kitsap coyne. one of them organized this suicide
prevention event, which came out of a tragedy in his own life. >> rick rainey. thank you for
coming. >> reporter: rick raymond is the reason why kitsap county is gathering to mark world
suicide prevention day. >> i was in the navy for 12 years. and i don't want to see anymore of my
fellow brothers and sisters in arms lose their life to sued. >> reporter: raymond has gotten to
know county officials because his hoping was destroyed in the port ownershipard tornado. the
connection he's made helped him organize this even. >> i'm taking something that was bad, a
disaster scepticism doing something good with. it and that's just something i can really care
about. >> reporter: 39 people died from suicide in kitsap county last year. this year, 30 people
have taken their own lives. >> a lot of people don't want to talk about suicide. >> nobody really
wants to. it's an uncomfortable topic. but that's actually part of the problem. because people
don't understand the scope of the problem. >> reporter: rimmed hopes this conversation
ignites more action. and compels lawmakers and health officials to get together to strategize
ways to reduce suicide. >> if you or someone you know needs help, you can always call the
confidential and free national suicide prevention lifeline.
KOHD (ABC)
Sep 10 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_63

good evening,nks for joining us for "central oregon thaedition. i'm daily" evening i'm allen
shauffler >> and today is samantha o'connor. prevention day. world suicide we worksuicide is
preventible if have more together. we academic on the public health country. >> sam,
impacting our it is sad but average somebodytrue, on commits suicide every 40 suicide
prevention day wasseconds. world 2003 to established in statistic. for eve reduce that about, 25
othersry suicide you hear themselves or t tried to kill >> first ofhought about it. has become an
all, suicide country if not epidemic in this it is the world. imperative we talk about hemm it. >>
murieldaughter of ernestingway, the emmingway who took his h sister own way andmargot of
committed suicide in hemmingway who >> we need to lea 1986. signs of when peorn
thedanger, at ple are in have to talk risk for suicide. weup with soluti about it to come moreons.
>> thanuicide every year. >>800,000 people commit s tell our story we have to healing for
because part of from any people that suffer imbalance is kind of mental isolate and feeling
feelingell my story not alone. i t is so impo because i think my story story is like rtant. because
mystory. we all have everybody else's >> the one. mental health may be stigma around suicide
and as more starting to shift about shared experiences a people open up emotions. >> i think
tnd of the his is one time, creat most important causes of oureople to understand theing ways
for pated or alone.y are not isol voices can save >> our talk lives. >> take the powe about it and
66

we from it.r that it has away anybody >> if you or is having suici you knowthoughts, call dal 1800-273-8255.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 11 • 9:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_64

lane county public health set to host a conference addressing suicide prevention and mental
well-being. later this month, mind your mind conference will open to the community. and have
prominent speakers on the topic. organizers say the goal of the conference is to increase
understanding about mental wellness across the life span and the connection to our overall
health. >> what we're going to be doing is developing some of those ways to talk to people
about their mental health. and how to promote mental health as a community, as a society. are
we really asking the right questions in and are we modeling that behavior for people? >>> the
mind your mind conference is september 25th through the 27th. for information about the
conference and registration details, you can visit our website at kval.com. >>> speaking of that,
this is national suicide prevention week. and the oregon health authority reports our state is
seeing an alarming increase. >> there's some help available at the local level.
kval's cassandra gutierrez has the story. >> before i was adopted, i really struggled with a lot of
trauma. from -- in my background. and my -- i had serious depression. i had suicidal ideation. i
had untreated trauma. >> he recalls turning to the internet for help. but not finding anything.
fast forward to now. martin, founder and ceo of youth era is celebrating ten years of bringing
mental health resources to youth in oregon and across the country. >> i never thought we
would make it this far. i always thought that the need for a service like ours was going to
disappear. and i was so wrong about that. >> and that's because at one point, suicide was the
second leading cause of death for oregon residents age 15 to 24. and for youth peer support
specialist, suicide nearly took his life twice. >> just having that lived experience, i know what it
feels like to have these thoughts. to be alone with that. and to feel like there's no option. that
there's no other options. >> now he focuses his efforts in creating online support platforms
such as the website, youthempowerment.com. having battled depression for years, he says,. >>
you can get through those feelings and move on and create a better life for yourself. >> youth
era, a local nonprofit helping youth all over the united states. reporting in eugene, i'm
cassandra gutierrez. >>> get more information at youthempowerment.com. the group also has
several locations here in oregon and across the united states.
News Radio KEX
Sep 11 • 10:20 PM

B_SEP_OREG_65

story that broke a couple weeks ago it says a new study finds that veterinarians and others who
spending all day surrounded by dogs and work with animals on a daily bases deal with stressful
and emotional events that put them at a higher risk of developing mental health conditions
such as depression anxiety in some cases suicidal thoughts as you heard that before well you
have to appreciate george then arian make a mistake listening medical doctors a them course
we have suicidal thoughts will be a mass shooter mass murder you're going to contribute to a
domestic violence dismayed are deficient and certain nutrients and Burien deserve them
67

susceptible to that issue and while those things again I think that veterans should go another
dinner in on this secret than go to a medical doctor what what cost is this the pressure as there
is sadness so maybe having to euthanize the animal something like that no Sir factually
deficient he was the only thing and actually have in my book a rare earth insurers champion 6
page 97 any abstract article was written in 1978 pollution like 3 different century Journal we
looked at 27 counties in texas and then they all have to join each other and Hey Hello these are
the most violent people in America mass shootings suicide and domestic violence and get their
hair or any old people on Earth and what we did look at the water supplies the County water
supplies of these people and one that had and violent behaviors Maj shootings serial killers
suicide and domestic violence and child abuse these had very low or none of this nutrient them
in their drinking water and the ones to head not that they were an Angel on Earth the adjoining
counties and her and naturally eat in their water systems had an enormous amount of this one
nutrient now this if it was first used and a you dog revenge earned to get that new 3.
KMTR (NBC)
Sep 11 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_66

this week is national suicide prevention week. a local nonprofit is working to tackle the problem
with their mental health services. the 2013 study from the oregon health authority showed
suicide with the second leading cause of death in oregon residents ages 14 to 25. the group
youth eric --era focuses on helping youth go through suicidal thoughts by using several
platforms including internet. this year, they are still running thin years of providing mental
health services. >> traditional symptoms have lots of reasons why they can't just go online, why
they can just transfer to these social media platforms that are arising. so, we are doing more
now than i ever thought would be possible.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 10 • 9:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_67

…sanctuaries where you have Google ideas julie your hand lights up it means you're ready for
him you know death it 38 in the film children a man there are ads for suicide aide called
quietness and in the book if you read the book children men which is different the film of the
elderly and infirm citizens they've become a burden on society and course only people who can
afford nursing homes Ah I can be a number of people for nursing homes so that is probably
should have said the rest are expected and sometimes forced to commit suicide by taking part
in a quiet this which is Council sanction mass drowning the age of 60 so 60 if you want to check
out you go to this mass drowning a year just 60 days the last round number of people and you
know that's what happens but I mean all the the issue is actually more of a drug in the film the
issue is more of the drug the record about the government a man named Theo this is his old
friend jasper and more than it used to this Blue kit on the coffee table between them and then
thiel was reading a book that comes with the kid says it there it is there a chance he will work
with you is there a chance this will not work for me there have been no causes of anyone
surviving was taking the preparation so such a good scene the deal was awakened by an alarm
on television and he wakes up there's an ad for quietest playing on TV and says you decide
68

when and then it says there's 3 benefits they're being sold by the first ball the quietest
company will pay up to 2000 pounds to the next of kin if you take it meeting that if you take it
they'll pay your bare barely expenses of the players for some of due process the body it's as
painless transition guaranteed illegals are welcome to use it as well and then there the visuals
and include a man who determine ellis drinking some this clear blue liquid glass as quietest logo
on the glass before standing up walking across the Beach he just gets up looks at the surf many
fades out and there's a sad scene in the film where a Jasper they guided deals friends with his
older man's play Michael Caine Jasper eventually use as a kid to kill his longtime unresponsive
white jazz apparently she's and some sort of that catatonic state he stays whether he still loves
and cares about her and then he hope Sir take life to course he's killed by a gang outside his
home she she's given the pill now the quiet this is a narrative probably helps us understand
really old and that showed that is what happens that it helps us understand the people are so
desperate and depressed in the future they're willing at a mass scale to consider suicide and
help us understand that the government government the time is facing such a terrible lack of
resources that have to incentivize suicide to keep its possible and it did basically keep the
population is a manageable level to those who could still pressed on so we are looking at the
Soylent corporations government there's a contract that there's a closet encourages people to
commit suicide to reduce their carbon footprint and that's of course it satirical observations on
the outrageous things would go to their swayed by an ideology that it isn't too far off the Mark
especially when you're hearing about you know all these green kneels disposed going effect
here about sean attacker situation a it's really sad thing we had the bill whose son his friend
was John attacker now he didn't want his son to find him dead and and they were going to treat
him so we had to choose that forced himself he had to choose suicide doris in florida your
ground zero my client who stole their hair Ah but started to 28 years and I won my Dianna good
and a lot of people haven't but I can tell you that hard that seems like you're at the end of life I
was there sean character but Angell turned the coffin they would have killed that was the thing
that was the point they mean what they would let them down and kill that boy they will
appoint a good night for is that the EU listen canada they have different health care system in
Canada and so they would not let him at 200 dollars a pop they would let him do it so his only
other choice suicide for sickening I know the deal with confronting about that the future he
carried a 0 when people come to work for a guy like me are they feeling confident they have
your fam doris doris doris doris sean was dying sean had A.L.S. any was functional he was able
to be on the line and talk to his friends readyo us he was okay he just couldn't move he could
speak that well that's the only problem had been dysfunctional and he wasn't dying he had he
had to do this because he was afraid it is Mosul's order to track these sleeping with children he
was hoping that 24 hour care in his home so somebody could watch died hot bench he is
operating in Canada the they said he's terror was caught off because they knew they weren't
going to because it socialized medicine they were going to put out the money a few 190 some
odd dollars a day to provide for him so the only choice he had was to kill himself that not know
that that that really got me Yeah I have become pro-life need a hot of their work I'm 100% prolife thing and that man should have had a chance because she can attract quality of life could
make a era and choice he had no choice storms I'm not blaming him I understand No no they
had no choice site Here's Here's the deal or us Let's say you're standing on the cliffs to left
viewers a raging fire to the right of you is a cliff and jagged rocks and water what choice do you
69

have a you stand there and be burned or you jump off a cliff and hoping you get soft water not
kill yourself that was his choice I think that was his choice they forced the side well if they ever
do in America I quit I'm good I'm not going to be damn nerves and Mark he thought you'd I
believe I believe in everybody I'm comforted the end of life and family time and future there is
a smooth and we know that and people at that I think you're in love with their not in despair
believe it or not course probably the public come to grips with their with their mortality see the
thing is that when you don't want to die at all you can have is some takeover watcher to make
sure you don't dir son doesn't find you dead you're 11 year-old son doesn't find dead then why
can't they do that they couldn't because the system would not allow it the system failed sean
tired of a system a lot of people are hoping or at least wondering if we're going to have when
they pass the Green new deal or the soiling Green new deal okay so I mean Yeah it's hard to
fathom this is we live in the United States right now well I guess it's arguable that the United
States health care system cares about the sick huh that's debatable I mean a lot of people I'm
sure they're sick or pain will agree with me this is something that most certainly is it is not
happening especially when it comes to prescription medications we over price of prescription
medications in this country and it's you know it's it's just horrible to see what they're doing to
people so I mean it and they would rather see who died or force you into some sort of suicidal
packed rather than having you live a good life even if you have a problem that some people see
as a problem we're helpless sean tag was not help us sean Haggard basically have a wife he had
a life that was destroyed and so this is something we really need to look into here anyway we'll
take a break.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 11 • 6:35 AM

B_SEP_OREG_68

thinks national suicide prevention week and k-2 is taking part in an effort to raise awareness
and we have a story about the be well council, a group of teenagers behind a new law to give
Oregon students five mental health days in school. >> i definitely think there should be more
classes on mental health and educating about mental health. and i think it would be great to
have a lot of counselors and support for students all the time. >>> now that group has new
members and meet every month to discuss ideas to create an open discussion about mental
health in schools and part of the initiative is to get rid of myths about how people behave when
living with a mental illness. all weeklong k-2 is participating in the second round of breaking the
silence. this partnership hopes to tackle the state's suicide crisis. our stories will air on k-2 news
at six. you'll also be able to find them online at breaking the silence or.com.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 11 • 6:47 AM

B_SEP_OREG_69

suicide is the second leading cause of death for young people tend to 24 years old here in
oregon often times it's charts with a teenager's Drug Hall abuse and some mental health issues
he excels as mayor I don't talk with an expert about the problem and what we can do about it
paul bryant is addiction medicine program director for Kaiser Permanente take I asked what's
the connection between drugs alcohol and thoughts of anyone's life and young people are
70

often struggling with not be able to regulate their emotions they got things going on their life
experience trauma those are all predictors suicide risk in addition to that other predictors of
substance use and when young people feel out of control one way they can feel in control this
team substances that make them feel different and I think those two things go hand in hand
and I've certainly seen a lot of youth and notable youth they completed suicide risk was
magnified by the substance use I think it used to be even more extreme mom and dad are
usually the ones to pick up on the fact that something's wrong identifying kids' better middle
school they're having significant suicidal ideation and may start
to experiment with drugs and alcohol for where the depression and suicide really they're
already you're self-medicating substances I think another way it can go this is their partying
having fun and then gets out of control and they've got that propensity for addiction which is
literally a lack of impulse control breeze too much and you have all these negative
consequences if we had 50 students in this room and they all had an addiction issue how many
of the 5th Gee whiz you stay put even fake of ending their lives would even think of suicide I
would say probably all of them would have thought at some point to varying degrees I would
say probably about half of them thought pretty seriously about it and maybe knows somebody
who has either attempted suicide or completed suicide Paul says parents can and should I ask
their family doctor to assess a child for suicide risk it they're worried about the research shows
us is that we need to ask these questions directly to use we don't I get in Yes Sir rounding up
question that we ask them straight away and never have thought of not waking up hurting
yourself.
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 11 • 6:29 AM

B_SEP_WASH_57

yakama nation tribal school students have a big day planned today but a portion of their time
will be to remember those who lost their lives tribal students will start off their day with the
yakama warriors association presenting the colors, in rememberance to the victims of the 9/11
attacks. later in the day students and faculty will be talking about mental wellness in school and
coping mechanisms when a family member or friend has died due to suicide. students and
yakama nation behavior health will be hosting a walk called" walk to wellness, embrace your
legacy walk." the walk will start at the school and end at yakama nation building where they will
have resources for students. the activity tables and all the coping mechanisms that behavioral
health is bringing this year to cope with any of your feeling of stress i think that's really great.
families and community members are encouraged to be a part of the wellness walk.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 11 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_70

now at 6:00, the nation stops to remember and honor those killed on 9/11, 18 years after the
attacks. >>> and a new case now of vaping related illness on the west coast as well as a new
federal crackdown on e- cigarettes. >> they give you a little incentive of a beer. >> trade in your
trash for a beer. it's an effective new way to protect the environment. trained as a paratrooper,

71

we'll join a veteran while he dives over oregon. >> i feel it change and transform under my
hand. a man who has a passion for working with wood, what he developed after finding himself
in a dark place. all this week kgw news and media outlets are highlighting the need to break the
silence about suicide. we have more about his message of not giving up. >> reporter: for a fine
wood worker like john furnace, only the sharpest of tools will work. after at quick run on the
grindser and sandlot it down, they're just the way help wants them. this piece of wood looks
more like a wheel of cheese. john furnace see as wooden bowl. i can take this picture that's in
my minds, this object that's in my mind, as make ate real thing. >> reporter: using his fingers as
guides and hands as his eye, he puts the tip of the his to the wood and changes its shape. while
i'm carving it i feel it change and transform under my hands. >> reporter: as you watch him
carve out this bowl, try seeing it from his point of view. his world wasn't always this dark. on
april 10th, 1998, he lost his sight at the age of 16 after surviving suicide attempt. >> that
morning i just, i just don't know. i just had enough. i had just reach add -- reached a point where
i didn't want to do it anymore. >> reporter: he used meth, had run-ins with police. life changes.
everything changes eventually and you can effect that change or be affected by the change >>
reporter: after almost hitting bottom a second time, he saw his potential in a piece of wood.
at a school for the blind in utah he picked up wood working and never looked back. the 37-yearold now spreads his message of hope to students of all ages. my message is work forward.
definitely look forward. be in the present moment, but look forward geometric shapes and
colors. i see it as red with plague speckles going through it kind of like snow on a tv screen but
not as fast. >> >> reporter: a life once spiraling out of control, saved by the hands of an artist.
>> it makes me realize that in some ways i had to lose my sight to gain my vision. >> reporter:
john speaks to all age, menty to high school. he's tailoring a message for each age group. his
stuff is for sale on his website . if you want to look at it head to our site, kgw.com where we
post as link. >> what a story. i'm sure be in demand as a speaker. >> reporter: it was an honor
to meet him. >> i can tell you were moved by him. he moved us all. great story . if you or a
loved one is thinking about suicide, please, reach out for help. call the national suicide
prevention lifeline at (800)273- 8255 or text.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 11 • 6:00 AM

B_SEP_WASH_58

Dale Brown is not facing any criminal charges this is a civil case against him for more than 75000
$ in damages his accuser Brittany Taylor says the two met in college at Bible study and losses
she says she's severely traumatized and even contemplated suicide denies the allegations he's
scheduled to attend his first path is with the Patriots today CBS news has obtained exclusive
information about the maker of OxyContin pain killer linked to the country's opioid epidemic
correspondent all the lanky from Stamford Connecticut a source close to the negotiations tells
CBS news that Perdue will file for bankruptcy if those points still except the settlement deal by
today and as of yesterday those negotiations were still ongoing as a landmark ruling overseas
involving euthanasia and dementia live to the foreign desk and CBS's Vicki Barker a Dutch court
has acquitted a doctor who carry out euthanasia on a woman with advanced dementia the
patient had signed the euthanasia consent form soon after her diagnosis but when her family
held her down for a facial injections 3 years ago she reportedly struggle suggesting she may
72

have changed her mind the doctor by the way was charged not with murder but with failing to
act with due care.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 11 • 10:20 AM

B_SEP_OREG_71

bullying is a serious problem both for children who are bullied and for the physical bullies them
self and a lot of evidence that kids who approximately go ton have a lot of problems with
relationships and with holing a job and getting into legal problems later on in life. we know that
kids who are victims of bullying behavior struggle with xine ty, depression, difficulties in school
and relationships and sometimes suicide. there are a few things we can do in terms of reducing
bullying. we need to talk about it. we also need to check win the kid and fost are the strenghths
so most importantly. everybody can help presen bullying the most basic way to model empathy
and keep youness so a lot of discussion about kids and bullying.
KONG-SEA
Sep 10 • 10:06 PM

B_SEP_WASH_59

communities all over the world are marking world suicide prevention day today. this is an
opportunity to talk about a topic that a lot of people shy away from. >> reporter: a veteran
organized this suicide prevention event which came out of a tragedy in his own life. thank you
for coming. >> reporter: rich raymond is the reason why kitsap county is gathering to mark
world suicide prevention day. >> i was in the navy for 12 years. and i don't want to see anymore
of my fellow brothers and sisters in arms lose their life to suicide. >> reporter: raymond has
gotten to know county officials over the last year because his home was destroyed in the
december 2018 port orchard tornado. the connections he made helped him organize this event.
>> i'm taking something that was bad, a disaster, and doing something good with it. >>
reporter: this year, 30 people have taken their own lives. >> a lot of people don't want to >>
nobody really wants to. talk about suicide. it's an uncomfortable topic. but that's actually part
of the problem because people don't understand the scope of the problem. >> reporter:
raymond hopes this conversation ignites more action and compels lawmakers and public health
officials to get together and strategize ways to reduce suicide. at the very least, he hopes to
shed light on a topic. >> if you or someone you know needs help, you can always call the
confidential and free national suicide prevention lifeline.
KREM (CBS)
Sep 11 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_60

i'm mark hanrahan. it's good to have you with us tonight. i'm whitney ward in for jane a
quarterly and high school student says some students laughed at her when she asked about
mental health support during orientation. well now she is hoping to change the conversation.
and as our taylor battle reports her question is already sparking change. it hasn't been the
easiest week for freshman matea dami. i was just a little bit disappointed in the reaction. the 14
year old says it all started on monday. it was during a freshman orientation presentation where
73

upperclassmen were talking about on campus clubs. the mood was light but metallica had a
serious question and i raised my hand and i asked is there a mental health group. she says that
was met with laughter. a lot of the kids thought i was trying to be funny by asking the question
what i wasn't. it was pretty tough. i was all concerned that this was going to affect her mental
health in an email sent to parents this week calling high school acknowledged the incident
writing quote it's an important question that unfortunately was met with laughter from other
students. mateo and her family say they don't want to dwell on this but rather want to talk
about the importance of mental health you know as i talked with her. i just really thought that
this was an opportunity to bring more awareness. let's turn this unfortunate situation that you
went through into a positive one. so i just want there to be less of a stigma and more people
speak out so than stuff like that doesn't happen as much. mental health is something that's
already a discussion topic in the district and something that chf has been addressing. it was just
a year and a half ago when the school experienced a loss of its own. it's a personal and
professional tragedy for many of us. in march of 28 teen then chf principal troy schuler died by
suicide blindsiding many here. since then the district says it has doubled down on mental health
and suicide prevention money from a levy approved just earlier this year is supporting mental
health programs the district says. courtney me personally because i care about every student
spilling one of their new efforts is called sources of strength it's a national suicide prevention
program designed specifically for schools sources of strength program actually trains us to be
adults. the school says they want to create a safety net for all students and today many ncip
wendy barrett to matea herself wore yellow in honor of national suicide prevention week. we
feel it's very important to sure children is that it will always get better and never ever give up.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 11 • 6:05 AM

B_SEP_WASH_61

community leaders from around the tri-cities came together to discuss topics impacting
children in the area. poverty, homelessness, mental health and suicide were among the issues
brought up. experts presented the challenges with the hope of finding solutions. (loann
ayers/president & ceo, united way "you know many of us are blessed to live in a protective
bubble, and we really care about our community, but we don't know what we don't know. and
as we open up this conversation, we hope that we will engage more people in finding their
zone. maybe it's hunger, maybe it's homelessness, maybe it's mental and behavioral health
where they can get more engaged to make a difference.") if you need help finding local services
whether it's for domestic violence or hunger, call 211.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 3:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_72

a PD Banfield pet hospital national chain headquartered in Portland has started a suicide
prevention effort to help its employees the centers for disease control and Prevention finds
that suicide rates among female veterinarians are 3 and a half times as high as that then the
national general population is twice as high for male veterinarians Lisa store Brown as with ban
failed and explains why the field the work can be so emotionally taxing the ordinary Iowans are
74

practitioners that euthanized patience and that's unique and although at times it is a thief best
paying for that current it's also what it does to ve veterinarian who perhaps is struggling and
emotional distress the nationwide program was announced today.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 8:23 PM

B_SEP_OREG_73

I'm wondering mounting go what do you think that pet owners have a role in this conversation
could definitely I cannot tell you how old much it makes a difference when someone comes in
and says I think you sometimes all it is thank you and that is It changes everything for us we can
go from having a horrible day were just seems like nothing is going right and suddenly having
someone come in and and say you know I recently heard about issues with affection suicide
and I just wanted to come in and check and see if you're okay we have a colleague that had a
client that drove an hour just to come and give her a hug them to do that just it just made me
so happy and it made a difference to all of the people that were involved and that she that the
colleague told us about having that name Yes everybody loves cookies and we are one of the
good professions that people didn't give us cookies and bring a Street and say thank you the
odd part about it is that usually those are only calm after euthanasia I am not after we do an
amazing lifesaving surgery and not after we do all these things better technically just amazing
like they should not have been possible and we might get an thanks for that but it's it's actually
after the euthanasia is that people show us that they care who moves and I think that even
raising the point about our clients and one of the things that we announced today to use that
and for all be closing our hospitals of are 1000 hospital for two hours with the intention of
helping our says its practices skills me ask training as well as focus on preventative health
lobbying for them but the other thing that's going to happen is we're going to close our hospital
so we have to communicate to our clients why and we're taking this opportunity to educate the
general population our clients about what's happening to their pet healthcare providers and
also letting them know that we're trying very hard to change statistics and to change but the
reality is I'm really excited to bring our clients along in the conversation because it's another
key piece to this these Mr. Brown only goal thanks very much thank you thank you these
historic ground is and feels mental health and well being program manager she's a licensed
clinical social worker helped develop their new suicide Prevention program Melanie global as
sharing it works not one more that the suicide Prevention group again the number for the
National suicide Prevention lifeline as 100 to 7.8 to 5 5
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 12 • 12:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_74

school councilors support students in things like academicick and their careers, and
disagreements with kids, but now more than ever, they're tackling adult issues like suicide and
mental health. when it comes to issues, school councilors like alissa miller are the ones on the
front lines. she has been a councilor for five years working in the kaiser school district. and in
that short time, she has seen how anxiety and depression and suicide have switched from a
conversation to a an actual crisis. >> it does feel like there has been an increase in just the
75

mental health part of things. >> tonight at 10:00 find out what it's like to be a councilor and
how they're helping our kids.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 3:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_75

Oregon law aims to create a suicide prevention plans for the 2020 school year with methods to
address high risk groups and training for school employees but in Washington long has been in
place for 6 years with a similar goal to increase the number of students who died by suicide
every year right now I'm joined by Camille goalie she's the behavioral health and suicide
Prevention program supervisor in the Washington superintendent's office had I John nice with
you so in Oregon were the first steps of this process Washington has been working on
implementing this type of plan for about 6 years what's the biggest challenge that you've seen
going from a mandate for suicide Prevention and actually achieving results I think one of the
biggest barriers have been that this is what we call an unfunded mandate districts receive a
requirement without receiving any resources to get to full implementation of the requirements
from the plant yet in oregon we also do not have the program funded I think for a lot of people
might seem like okay there's a program that's in place a plan is made why is this funding so
important Yeah I think it's important to note that we should be assuming that the school district
staff have E capacity to take on the extra body of work and the lot of times when I tried to talk
about it talk about it as big strategic banning process because one person can develop a plan
and isolation in terms of the training give me a sense of what would be necessary like what to
teachers and staff need to be able to help in this sort of program one of the things that I've
found to be really important is that we all have a place in suicide Prevention this is not
something that only happens with a clinician in healthcare settings so for me when I leave the
training needs to include is a lot of building a competent and confident for those educators to
know that when they recognized chain Wasn't a student who they see every day that they can
go to someone in their building and saying Hey I've noticed this student has exhibit some
changes that make me a little bit worried that teacher needs to know that they can see that
they can recognize that they can go to someone in the building who will be able to followthrough on getting that student the support so thought S systems building and training
everyone in the building to be able to respond to that system so you mentioned that
Washington has been dealing with this unfunded program without the dedicated funding water
districts doing how are they going about putting in place the plan so there's 295 school districts
in Washington state and they're all doing a little bit differently we also don't have a sense for
how every single one of them is doing it because it included an unfunded mandate is no
accountability mechanism so we were not collecting the plans are reviewing them what's really
interesting is that because this topic there's so much stigma Associated with suicide that often
there's a lot of resistance to doing this work just because of everyone's own personal fear years
so I think what's really interesting is that once they dig into this work very increases the level of
comfort among the adults to really talk about suicide and other mental health issues that we
know frankly young people are more comfortable talking about van in adults right now Um
Yeah what sort of successes have you seen have there been any examples of times you've really
seen this new law work the successes that I have seen her when schools have identified the
76

student that would have gone unnoticed true lot attend the warning signs are I assumed that as
student which show of appearing to be depressed or distraught but we also know is that
sometimes our students who do well in the classroom and have good social skills those
students are at times at risk and we wouldn't know if we were doing the work to identify all of
the risk factors for suicide not just the seemed to want Camille I think it thank you Kmele gold
the is behavior health and suicide Prevention programs supervisor in the Washington
superintendent's office this conversation is part of breaking the silence since an effort by news
organizations across Oregon.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 12 • 8:35 AM

B_SEP_OREG_76

or gone state oh tpeurpbl who resigned says the governor's office was interfering with her job.
before she resigned on monday. her job was meant to keep government officials accountable
to the public but she says staff in the governor's office interfered with that. and memo obtain
by fox 12 she writes about a meeting she had with the general is counselor to the governor to
discuss a report she had written and she says the staff member told her it was her job to
represent the interest of the governor's office. mccall says she felt that was dishonest. even
sometimes disagreements with other kids, but now more than ever they're tackling adult issues
like suicide and mental held. when can comes to mental health issues school counselors are the
ones op the front lines. miller has been a school counselor for 5 years working at mcneary high
school. in that short time she's seen how topics like anxiety and depression and suicide have
switched from conversation to an actual crisis. it does feel like an increase in just the mental
health part of things.
KLSR (FOX)
Sep 11 • 10:11 PM

B_SEP_OREG_77

this is national suicide prevention week... and the oregon health authority reports our state is
seeing an alarming increase. as Kassandra >>> welcome back. the oregon health authority
purports that our state is seeing an alarming increase. as cassandra gutierrez reports there is
help at the local level. >> before i was adopted, i really struggled with a lot of trauma, and my
background, and i had serious depression, i had suicidal ideation. i had untreated trauma. >>
reporter: he recalls turning to the internet for help but not finding anything. fast forward to
now, martin radford is founder and ceo of youth era, and celebrating 10 years of bringing
mental health resources to youth in oregon and across the country. >> i never thought we
would make it this far. i always thought that the need for a service like ours was going to
disappear. and i was so wrong about that. >> reporter: that is because at one point, suicide was
the second leading cause of death for oregon residents aged 15 to 24. and for youth specialist,
suicide nearly took his life, twice. >> just having that lived experience, i know what it feels like
to have these thoughts, to be alone with that. and to feel like there is no option, that there is
no other options. >> reporter: he focuses his efforts in creating online support platforms, such
as the website, youth empowerment.com and having battled depression for 10 years, he says ->> you can get to those feelings into can move on and you can create a better life for yourself.
77

>> reporter: youth era, a local nonprofit helping youth all over the united states, reporting in
eugene, i'm cassandra gutierrez. >> there is more information@youthempowerment.com. they
also have several locations in oregon and across the u.s.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 12:14 PM

B_SEP_OREG_78

it were not for cost and you know lean as a doctor about when euthanize them Pat to that fact
that takes a toll and not very much is a medical practice imaginary health which isn't the
conversation among health care providers for human health care the studies show that for
veterinarians there are almost twice as high suicide rates and health care providers and I think
the writers for Pan both for pets higher improve twice as high and I think the other component
we haven't really touched dun is them to the fat health that the Nigerians are practitioners that
euthanize their patience and that's unique and although at times it is the best paying for that
panicked we talked a little bit about more dilemmas but it's also what it does to believe that a
Marine who perhaps is struggling and emotional distress no wean that ended at can and life is
any good care practice for a patient and any mental health state we heard one is feeling
depressed despaired D intellectual walk to do that to myself is not very Are and that's a really
unique for and separate from anything the Dixons and human health care Let's turn to the
program that they're your system a pet hospitals and is announcing nationwide today you call
the ask her campaign ask Hey what is at the heart of this at the heart of this is what we really
want to teach the concerned colleagues what it looks like and sounds like when somebody's an
emotional distress to recognize that to get permission to reaching out to that person and
framework of how how that conversation to find out what exactly is going on one to provide
support and the key is linking them professional support but the basic the heart of this is having
people colleagues or co-workers the people they they see around the office more attuned to to
to this dangerous is that mean that way everybody is more aware of this problem is exactly he
no longer and efforts on suicide Prevention focus son really encouraging the person who are
struggling to reach out who are Super important message this training Oslo leverages those
around that person who are not struggling team in the same ways and who can see what's
happening to that person because often the person emotional distress is either unaware that
they're going through these difficulties or they're just really unable to reach out to third their
thinking is often parrot and they're not able to literally reach out and talk about it and so I ask
who teaches a whole other group of people what to look for and how to have that conversation
and line the word ask is because typically most people are not sure if they should get involved if
it's their business they don't want to offend the don't want to make it worse so we created the
acronym ask because if you are not remembering what aid has case dance floor that's okay tells
you to please reach out to is your plan here doesn't rely on a certain existing level of trust and
friendship and collegiality aiming will people don't speak to their co-workers if they don't
already feel a certain level of closeness to them I think that this train mean foot it is for the non
mental health person to recognize and one of the signs of these cryptic messages so if you're
close enough to somebody to send you a cryptic message that that's it Yeah ever going to see
me again many close enough to ask them what do you mean by that please tell me more what's
going on and these conversations are not easy to have and that's why this ask training it's a 30
78

minute interactive E learning and we used the videos to show what they feel like sound like
look like because these are not natural conversations to have know like my understanding is
that in addition to working for this veterinarian focused suicide Prevention group not one more
that you've dealt with these issues you yourself personally can you give us a sense for when you
started to deal with with depression and anxiety and suicidal thoughts Yeah so mine see it mice
my time with this is a little bit different than some people I am I had a very good upbringing but
is happy upbringing but the first time I considered suicide I was in first grade and I said to be a
vet when I was 4 or thought about suicide starting in 4th grade I was not actually diagnosed
with anxiety and depression and Hill high school and I didn't actually Seek treatment until my
first year vet school it just so happens that the second week of that school September 11th
2001 and my anxiety and depression really focused around people either hated me or have
indicted not coming to where I am and so that was kind of my focus and then as for my mental
health issues and Thankfully I've never needed to be on medication I've been able to manage it
with him one-on-one therapy with counselors and there's more that goes into that as far as
family members suicide attempts and so forth and Unfortunately a lot of people that have also
died by suicide or one of their family member hands so even in high school I had people coming
to me and saying Hey I and Don I I don't do this anymore I am so I got a an early experience on
how to deal with some of this but they did it on my eye on my own I had no one to support me
and I didn't know who to go to hell with those concerns what do you make of that particular
focus that banfield animal hospital is taking now as we just heard from isis are proud of how I
try to create more of of a network of support and and people really looking out for each other I
think it's amazing what we do with not one more that is the whole point of having that peer to
peer support it's not that we are mental health counselors it's not that we have all the answers
but we can understand what's going on and what it feels like to have that case go bad or just
whatever we eat we understand that and within the veteran community when you're looking at
the support staff when you're looking at the veterinarians when you're looking at everybody
involved most of us spend more time with our work colleagues than we do with our families
and so to be able to did teach each other how to say are you thinking about killing yourself it's
it's not normal question to ask and that's one of the things that we do with that one more that I
think it's great for infielders doing that this is well you're dealing with the population here come
the by definition they saw such careers focused on on helping others I'm helping animals and
people love animals does that make them less likely in general the police Mr. Brown to seek
help themselves I think it in some ways Yes mood in general our veterans tend to be introverts
scientist the best and brightest and become incredibly skilled actor bean professional and doing
their Madison and often times it's it's it's holding back their emotions and may need to do their
job it's so it's hard to switch on and switch off one more of that not one more that is an
amazing piece of this puzzle because there's no one answer to suicide Prevention and providing
a safer place for doctors to talk to other doctors without the risk of being exposed judge but
supported and validated and helped is incredibly important piece of the solution as well I'm
wondering mounting go what do you think that pet owners have a role in this conversation
could definitely I cannot tell you O much it makes a difference when someone comes in and
says I think you sometimes all it is I think you and I that is It changes everything for us we can go
from having a horrible day where it just seems like nothing is going right and then suddenly
having someone come and and see you know I recently heard about issues with that moral
79

suicide and I just wanted to come in and check and see if you're okay with a colleague that had
a client that drove in power just committing give her a hawk and that just it just made me so
happy and it made a difference to all of the people that…
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 8:13 PM

B_SEP_OREG_79

people stopped and continued speaking with their bad we do our best to find a treatment
protocol and costs that works for them it is difficult though when even the basics that we need
to do you have proof that financial position that we have to say okay it cost us X amount to
keep the doors open we need to be able to charge this as well to care for that patient and it I've
had people turn around and say well this dog isn't that important to me so just killer floor and
said things like that home please mr Brown I talked about what seems to be a little bit of a
difference between human medicine and medicine terms of the general transparency of costs
but how do suicide rates compare among these different kinds of medical practitioners people
focus on people our people focus on high-end malls who I think I am it so melanie Smith trying
to calm what she's describing is what we call a moral dilemma being able to deliver medical
care to patients if it were not for cost and knowing as a doctor about when euthanized that Pat
to that fact that takes a toll and not very much is part of the medical practice seminary health
which isn't the conversation among health care providers for human health care unit the
studies show that for veterinarians there are almost twice as high suicide rates and health care
providers and I think one of the writers for for Pan both trip for pets higher improved twice this
time I think the other component that we haven't really touched dun is them to the fat health
that the Americans are practitioners that euthanized patients and that's unique and although at
times it is the best paying for that panicked we talked a little bit about more on Alamance but
it's also what it does to be a veterinarian who perhaps is struggling and emotional distress
knowin that N D at can and life is any good care practice for a patient in A.D. mental health
state we heard one is feeling depressed despaired thee intellectual walk to do that to myself
And that's really unique and separate from anything that exists and human is not very far
health care Let's turn to the program that that you were system a pet hospitals and is
announcing nationwide today you call the ask her campaign ask K.D. what is at the heart of this
at the heart of this is what we really want to teach concerned colleagues what it looks like and
sounds like when somebody's an emotional distress to recognize that to get permission to
reaching out to that person and framework of how that conversation to find out what exactly is
going on one to provide support and the key is linking them professional support but the basic
the heart of this is having people colleagues or co-workers the people they see around the
office more attuned to toot to this danger is that me that way everybody is more aware of this
problem is exactly in line with efforts on suicide Prevention focus signed really encouraging the
person who's struggling to reach out Super important message this training Oslo leverages
those around that person who are not struggling in the same ways and who can see what's
happening to that person because often the person an emotional distress is either unaware
that they're going through these difficulties or they're just really unable to reach out to third
their thinking is often parrot and they're not able to literally reach out and talk about it and so I
ask teaches a whole other group of pure people what to look for and how to have that
80

conversation and why the word ask is because typically most people are not sure if they should
get involved if it's their business they don't want to offend the don't want to make it worse so
we created though the acronym ask because if you are not remembering what A.S. case stands
for that's okay tells you to please reach out to is your plan here doesn't rely on a certain
existing level of trust and friendship and collegiality mean will people you know speak to their
co-workers if they don't already feel a certain level of closeness to them I think that this train
mean for its for a non-mental health person to recognize and one of the signs isis cryptic
messages so if you're close enough to somebody to send you a cryptic message that that's it
you ever see me again then you're close enough to ask them what do you mean by that please
tell me more what's going on and these conversations are not easy to how and that's why this
ask training it's a 30 minute interactive E learning and we used the videos to show what they
feel like sound like look like because these are not natural conversations to 9 go my
understanding is that in addition to working for this veterinarian focused suicide Prevention
group not one more that you've dealt with these issues yourself personally can you give us a
sense for when you started to deal with with depression and anxiety and suicidal thoughts Yes
my way it my my time with this is a little bit different than some people I am I had a very good
upbringing is happy upbringing but the first time I considered suicide I was in 4th grade and I
said to give that when I was 4 or thought about suicide starting in 4th grade I was not actually
diagnosed with anxiety and depression until high school Treatment until my first year that
school but it and I didn't actually see just so happens that the second week of that school was
September 11th 2001 and my anxiety can't depression I'm really focused around people either
hated me or have indicted not coming to where I am and so that was kind of my focus and then
as for my mental health issues and Thankfully I've never needed to be on medication I've been
able to manage it with him one-on-one therapy with com slurs and there's more that goes into
that as far as family members suicide attempts and so forth and Unfortunately I know a lot of
people that have also died by suicide or one of their family members has so even in high school
I had people coming to me and saying Hey I and John I I don't want to do this anymore and so I
got a an early experience on how to deal with some of this but I did all my eye on my own I had
no one to support me and I didn't know who to go to hell with those concerns what do you
make of that particular focus that banfield animal hospital is taking now as we've just heard
from Israel Brown of of trying to create more of of a network of support and and people really
look out for each other I think it's amazing what we do with not one more event is the whole
point of having that peer to peer support it's not that we are mental health counselors it's not
that we have all the answers but we can understand what's going on and what it feels like to
have that case go bad or just whatever wheat we understand that and within the veteran
community when you're looking at the support staff when you're looking at the veterinarians
when you're looking at everybody involved most of us spend more time with our work
colleagues than we do with our families and so to be able to teach each other how to say are
you thinking about killing yourself it it's not normal question to ask and that's one of the things
that we do with that one more that I think it's great the infield is doing that this is well you're
dealing with the population here have that by definition they saw such careers focused on on
helping others I'm helping animals and the people love animals does that make them less likely
in general the police Mr. Brown to seek help themselves I think it in some ways Yes alone mood
and food in general I've had in merion tend to be introverts scientist the best and brightest and
81

become incredibly skilled actor being professional and doing their Madison and often times it's
it's it's holding back their emotions and they need to do their jobs so it's hard to switch on and
switch off one more of that not one more that is an amazing piece of this puzzle because
there's no one answer to suicide Prevention and providing a safe place for doctors to talk to
other doctors without the risk of being exposed.
KHQ (NBC)
Sep 12 • 6:52 AM

B_SEP_WASH_62

spokane campus is holding suicide prevention training. this comes just after the world health
organization shed light... on how serious and common suicide is today, particularly with young
people. khq's kevin kim now with a closer look at what's happening another statistic that's
shocking.. one person dies every 40 seconds from suicide.a couple of years ago in 2017, the cd-c said suicide was the tenth- leading cause of death... but now? the world health organization
says suicide is the second-leading cause of death among young people. that includes people
from the ages of 15 to 29... and among teenagers, aged 15 to 19? suicide was the secondleading cause of death among girls... and the third-leading cause of death in boys. so, today, at
w- s-u's campus in spokane... suicide prevention training will be held at 4-30 this afternoon.
registration is technically closed... but it's open to all w-s-u students and staff... it's also open to
eastern Washington university students and staff too.
KAYU (FOX)
Sep 12 • 8:51 AM

B_SEP_WASH_63

new this morning... wsu set to hold suicide prevention training at its spokane campus today.
this comes just after the world health organization shed light... on how serious and common
suicide is today, particularly with young people. new studies from the world health organization
show that twenty percent of suicides are spur of the moment decisions, caused by stress.kevin
kim joins us now with what the university is doing to prevent suicide in our region. one person
one person dies every 40 seconds from suicide, according to the world health organization... it's
the latest statistic that shows suicide is growing - a couple of years ago in 2017, the c-d-c said
suicide was the tenth-leading cause of death... but now? the world health organization says
suicide is the second-leading cause of death among young people. that includes people from
the ages of 15 to 29... and among teenagers, aged 15 to 19? suicide was the second- leading
cause of death among girls... and the third-leading cause of death in boys. 5 steps for helping
someone in emotional paincourtesy: national institute of mental health1. ask2. keep them safe
3. be there4. help them connect 5. stay connected so, today, at w-s-u's campus in spokane...
suicide prevention training will be held at 4-30 this afternoon. registration is technically
closed... but it's open to all w-s-u students and staff... it's also open to eastern washington
university students and staff too. in spokane, kevin kim, khq local news.

82

KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 12 • 7:10 PM

B_SEP_OREG_80

the central oregon suicide prevention alliance is hosting a candlelight vigil ht now' for anyone
who's 'rig attendees will light a candle lost a loved one to suicide. at sunset in honor of their
loved one. ### ght vigil, they should expect to feel very welcom "when people come to the
candlelie and that it's a very healing eneach other and support one another through
honorivironment, where we're all able to be in community with the vigil's happening atng the
memory of our loved ones." the bend lapine schools education center. goldwasser's currently
covering newschannel 21's max you tonight on first at 10 on fox. the event. we'll have more for
this week ### took place inis national suicide awareness week, and several events week in
memory of lives lo central oregon throughout the st. out suicide prevention visit k-t-v-z's
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 8:01 PM

B_SEP_OREG_81

the centers for disease control and Prevention has sobering data that veterinarians they found
suicide rates among male veterinarians are twice as high as in the general population and 3 and
a half times higher for female that's today the Banfield pet hospital a national chain
headquartered in Portland announced the news suicide prevention effort just a second we'll
hear what it entails but before we start I want to remind everybody the National suicide
Prevention lifeline provides free and confidential support 24 hours a day 7 days a week the
numbers one 802.3 8 to 5 fide can also text the word home to 7.1 7 for one I'm joined now by
Lisa Stuart ground she is banfield mental health and well-being program manager and she's a
licensed clinical social worker who helped develop their news suicide Prevention program
known as Goebel is the dictionary who works for not one more event that's suicide Prevention
group great to have both of you on the show I think you leases to ground first what some of the
factors that contribute to these higher rates why arbitrary and take their own lives that much
higher rates than the general population others many factors that I am really create a situation
where mediterranean may feel that suicide is the the only solution and it's different for
everyone in iran and and Chen all it has to do in the high student debt and they experience and
it's the debt to income ratios that we're talking about it's also what we call compassion fatigue
thee industry is right but opportunity is floor and experiences one of pain and I eat health
outcome of each and every patent patient isn't what we would want for each and everyone of
them and we also have to support the clients the pet parents who often is them but some
significant grief experience in their life and they're human I am animal bond is is absolutely I am
very very real and power for Melanie Koval what are some of the issues said Vicki you here
coming up over and over again when it comes to the issue of suicide and medicine a lot of times
it actually is some of the difficult interactions that they have Unfortunately as good veterans we
might be we don't always have a positive help calm not even when we do have a positive
outcome there's a bill that comes with that and say third the interactions with clients with IRD.

83

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 3:25 PM

B_SEP_OREG_82

oregon is developing a plan to prevent suicide among students it's a project that Washington
has been working on for 6 years and they've got some advice for us we should be assuming that
school district staff have the capacity to take on the extra body of work we'll take a look at what
goes into designing and implementing that plan.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 12 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_83

reporter: he has been a firefighter and paramedic for almost 30 years. >> it did not really slap
me in the face like it would have at work, it was not quite as obvious. >> reporter: his son died
of suicide on september 22nd, 2017. >> he was probably about 10, 11-ish? >> reporter: he just
started his senior year. >> he was a loving, caring young man coming into his own. >> this is his
picture, he had taken his dog, shadow, to school. >> that does not look like a kid who is about
to take his own life, does it? >> he still had a lot to do. >> reporter: carver was there baby boy.
>> his loss affected a lot of people. >> reporter: both parents sensed something was wrong but
could not figure it out. they found help and thought it was a teenager going through hormones.
>> this is a spot for us to come down and reflect and think about not just carver, but carver and
the interaction he had with his brothers down here. >> it is a serene spot in the middle of the
property. a place to remember their son, sadly, carver is one of many in this county. there have
been 133 deaths by suicide in cowlitz county. in 2016, the chaplains office has delivered their
message now in a bigger form putting "do not give up" on this wall. it is a message of hope for
those driving by. >> we started with the you are worthy of love. >> reporter: a message that
started in new bern. >> we added a couple of messages since. >> reporter: amy wolfe heard
about the growing deaths in her hometown, specifically at the high school. >> all of the yard
signs say do not give up on the back. >> reporter: she wanted to help, even if it meant in the
smallest way. >> we decided we were going to get 20 yard signs printed with encouraging
words on them like do not give up, you are worthy of love. and, stick them around properties
around the high school. asking strangers to put signs in their yards for two weeks. >> reporter:
small movement exploded. signs started popping up, a group even took some of them on a
road trip across the u.s. soon, they started getting requests for more. >> we just reached the
milestone of over 10,000 yard signs. it is crazy. >> reporter: in two short years she has made a
difference in the lives of people with a simple message of hope. a message that makes you
know you're not alone, and to never give up. >> we need to talk talking about it as a
community. it is not a reflection of me as a father, us as a family, or anything like that. it is an
epidemic. >> reporter: jarl peterson is planning a walk on september 21st, he hopes to bring
awareness to suicide prevention. it is open to anyone, bring a picture of a loved one or
someone that you have lost to suicide. it is in longview around the lake. >> powerful that they
shared their story. that is a gesture of love. do not give up. if you or someone you know is
taking about suicide, is reach out for help. do not give up. you can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline.

84

Portland's CW
Sep 12 • 10:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_84

now we want to introduce you to a lot shingle man with a passion for working with would. it's a
passion he developed after finding himself in a dark place now all this week kgw news and
media outlets from around organ have been highlighted the need to break the silence about
suicide devin haskins brings us the story of this would workers message about not giving up. for
fine woodworker like john furnace only the sharpest of tools will work. after a quick run on the
grinder and standard down there just the way he wants them this piece of wood looks more
like a will of cheese john furnace sees a wooden bowl. i can take this picture that's in my mind
this object it's in my mind and make it a real thing. using his fingers is guides in his hands as his
eyes he puts the tip of the chisels of the wood and changes its shape while i'm carving it on the
lay they feel it change and transform under my hand when i'm as i'm feeling it. as you watch
him carve out this bull try seeing it from his point of view. his world wasn't always this dark. day
on april 10th 1998 he lost his sight at the age of 16 after surviving a suicide attempts and that
morning. i just. i just don't know i just i just had enough i just reached a point where i i didn't
want to do it anymore. his life spiraled downhill for the next seven to eight years using math
and having run ins with police. Life changes it everything changes eventually and you can affect
that change or you can be affected by that change and after almost hitting bottom a second
time he saw as potential and a piece of wood at a school for the blind in utah. he picked up
woodworking and is never looked back. except the 37 year old now spreads his message of
hope to students of all ages i message is look forward definitely look forward definitely be in
the present moment but look forward to what make. come others many pieces of work. there's
bulls honey pots and so much more that these hands of touched. helen keller once said of all
the census sites must be the most delightful and if you want to know what john sees just listen
to his description and follow along. close your eyes and your press on. you see those kind of
kaleidoscopic geometric shapes and colors and all that kind of thing. i see a version of that all
the time and it's it's red with black speckles going through a kind of like snow want a tv screen
but not not as fast a life once spiraling out of control saved by the hands of an artist it makes
me realize that in some ways i had to lose my site to really game. what a story. what an
incredible turnaround was so glad that john shared a story that was devon haskins reporting
and if you'd like to purchase anything that john is made it just beautiful creations we posted a
link for you on our web site at kgw scott. we also want to say if you or someone who you love.
is ever thinking about suicide please reach out for help. you can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline at 800 273 8255 or text 2 7 3 talk to 8 3 9 8 6 3.
KREM (CBS)
Sep 12 • 5:58 AM

B_SEP_WASH_64

most of us are familiar with kurt cobain the musician now a new clothing line aims to introduce
the world to cobain as a visual artist. his daughter curated a selection of his shirts sweatshirts
and books of all of his art in the nirvana museum in seattle. she calls it kurt was here. the
collection will be auctioned off a portion of the proceeds made from the clothing line will go

85

towards the jed foundation for emotional health and suicide prevention to check it out you can
go to kurt cobain shop dot com.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 12 • 3:41 PM

B_SEP_OREG_85

the killed didn't kill the person the person decide to commit son's suicide using it and it's an
important distinction because yesterday the new York times said 50 airplanes on September
11th aimed to themselves the buildings in downtown new York that's not true islamic terrorists
aimed airplanes they used the airplanes as 8 killing school your husband said to say I'm sorry for
your loss he decided by the way to combat that trend mounted country in our front take care of
him when he came on that's something that will allow a man who was elected by a Pepto with
no background kept thought the man you want to answer your questions so the audience know
what's going on when did your husband by his position you know about a month and a half
before his death where was he able to buy the pistol without a background check because you
live in a state where background checks required for all pistol and rifle sales what the group
called her at the background checks required for all revolvers did who did you buy it from that
allowed into by without filling out a form 44 _seventy_ _three_ background checks fingerprints
picture I.D. end date and a background check to the national instant check system what you're
describing does not happen if he bought it from any license and effective you do a private
Already have background checks there are required sale in States all for all transfers how was
he able to buy his pistol without a background check play and you appear man I'm gonna ask
you court them if he bought it at a gun store he was required to go through a background check
every sing in fact when I buy buy firearms from time to time usually one or two year and every
single one even and background check dozens of times I recorded go through background
checks when you say he bought with no background check that's simply not true if you bought
it from a licensed gun dealer do understand them and even if he had bought a key U.S. he'll
understand that act bps a pellet gun at one of the number one reason that that trend killed
himself you know I can you acknowledge you have it aired Wow thank you would you like me to
offer use is proof that suicide is not tied to gun ownership a year ago the the want to give me
something factual world life and guys do and I know I'm a great Tam hold on to the number one
countries and in the world for him Feldman him to have the number one country in the world
for suicide or Japan and South Korea both good country's but they have extraordinarily tight
controls on guns and make our gun laws you know their gun laws are very very tough and for
the most part private citizens are not allowed to own guns yet they have some high suicide
rates in the world once somebody I met hit by White men it doesn't matter what it matters very
much so and you are telling me that access to guns does not increase the those are consulate 5
at a time and educaon there had I had a great Yeah you do not know what the map it a gaffe it
but I'm not also counts but if you're thinking that somebody commits suicide because there's a
gun available but if there was no gun available they would not find another way to take their
life a feature that belies common sense that's why offer of Japan and South korea as examples
they have very high suicide rates much higher than the United States and yet they have almost
no private gun ownership all so by your theory the japanese and the South korea should have a
much lower suicide rate because they don't have routine access by citizens to guns and yet they
86

have hired suicide rates in the United States of America and they have almost no private gun
ownership those facts you can study and I'm sorry for your loss.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 12 • 5:50 PM

B_SEP_WASH_65

you can join the out of the darkness walk this weekend to help raise awareness for suicide
Prevention more on that next to Keiji mind this is done Curtis J Gomez casket radio group with a
look at some good news in our community we like to call the upside congratulations to the 29
Team Subaru love promise retailer of the year doing Griffin Subaru and doing Griffin Subaru
they believe in taking care of the community with over 140000 $ donated to 35 local charities
last year the mire family and the entire family doing Griffin Subaru know is that if everyone
gives a little the entire community can have a whole lot the Subaru love promise retailer of the
year has been awarded to do Griffin Subaru in recognition of excellence customer service and
extraordinary commitment to their community doing Griffin Subaru not only donate their
whole team rolls up their sleeves and serves because they know that's how community grows it
stays together the upside is brought to you from my grant provided by Bayside coins and
jewelry located I love business Park from loose diamonds to custom jewelry experience the best
personalized service in their private a chilling route if you have good news to report email to me
add the upside at cal state radio group dot-com kg alive I could lose you lose extra cost and
worse shington state and the second-leading cause 4th 15 to 34 year-old of volunteers from
Walker County are joining a quarter of a million people who were walking in towns across
United States draw attention to the fight for suicide Prevention the first annual walk and
County out of the darkness walk will be held from 8 to 11 this Saturday at Bellingham High
School and steve kerr from the Walker County lines club and Justine the clerk from the
American Foundation for suicide Prevention joined be in studio to talk more about the event
asked both of these organizations are hosting the out of darkness walk thank you so much for
your time in Indiana so what is the goal of the out of darkness Bach that goal is really to raise
awareness and really help the community talk about mental health being an we we don't want
people ever felt alone as they might be struggling or my have locks somebody a suicide so the
walk is really a place for the community to come together to release around those that have
been impacted by a suicide or are struggling with mental health and for people to come to
know that they're not alone and there are other people there to support them their resources
there to support you and also just hearing stories of ways that other people have been
impacted by suicide will help us in the end really talking and writing about suicide absolutely
and steve weise this topic important to the Walker County lines club well you know the Lions
club is the largest service organization in the world and we kept hearing more and more stories
coming for us the few of them were very pointed and and close to home with a number of us
and we sat and decided what what is it we can do how can we give help in providing some kind
of awareness program I was put in touch with the American Foundation for suicide Prevention
and Justine the American Foundation for suicide Prevention of course is their goal is to prevent
suicide but what is it in a little more detail that 8 F s P helps out with their fst below core
mission is to bring the community together to make sure that we're smarter about mental
health we want to provide hope for those that have been impacted by suicide and so one of the
87

ways that we're doing that is we have a bull goal as an organization and really across the
country and really the world as we are the leaders and suicide Prevention is thought to reduce
that suicide rates by 20% in 2025 and and the reason why we have up bold goal is we need to
make a difference we need to bring the state math on need to keep bring people out of the
dark and and really talking about mental health talking about their loss talking about with the
strongly and then also on the flip side is to really educate individual on how they can help what
can you do if you're worried about your friend or a family member howdy reach out for help
that is all something that we do and talk about that in fs he we have education programs
throughout the state We worked really hard on our toxins lies program which is a 45 minute
pre presentation that where we'll be bringing to walk and County throughout the year and that
program is really built on because of out of the darkness box and it really is about bringing
people together to talk about the science the warning signs to talk about how they can get help
and also just talked about suicide to understand what somebody might be experiencing when
they have to say that the nation and their review resources at the out of the darkness Waka
Waka County that people can check out right Yeah cracks so efficie partners the resources
throughout the community to make sure that they're present at all of our Fox slacken County
lock is one of 8 blocks throughout Washington state this year we have resources are all of our
rocks and it really is for people it's a one-stop-shop so when you come to a lock you we want
you to know that you're not alone and that your experiences are valid and now we want you to
feel a part of the community and so filling part of the community is one.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 13 • 4:44 PM

B_SEP_OREG_86

the roles of local school counselors are evolving. now more than ever they are tackling adult
issues as well like suicide and mental health. as part of our better together initiative focusing on
mental wellness fox 12 haley rush sat working in a local district to discuss what is happening. >>
it has never been harder to be a kid or teenager if you ask school counselors. they are the one
who day in and day out talk with students who are going through something. their jobs are
always changing. >> when it comes to mental health issues school counselors like melissa miller
are the ones on the front lines. >> all counselors are trained in mental health and we are the go
to in the building. if we have any kind of a mental health crisis they come to us first. >> miller
has been a school counselor for five years working at mcnary high school in the salem kaiser
school district. in the short time she has seen how topics like anxiety depression and suicide
have switched from a conversation to an actual crisis. >> it feels like there has been an increase
in the mental health part of things. >> it was three years ago miller said this high school
experienced devastating losses after two students took their lives it just a couple of weeks from
each other. >> a year later we lost one of our seniors and he was one of mine and we were
pretty close. that was my first experience of going through something where it really hit so
close to home. >> it's also just coming off a tough year. a spokesperson tell us us it was last
school year when six kids in the district died of suicide. miller says the district is doing whatever
it can to prevent lives lost and that means when it comes to mental health issues her job is
always changing. >> it is very thorough now. as a counselor you figure out how to make the
thoroughness still feel genuine to the kids. >> it star to the conversation then a suicide risk
88

assessment questionnaire. >> once we can find out the level of the crisis then we know where
to refer them to and what resources they may need and if parents need to be pulled in and if it
is founded or unfounded and it drives the direction we need to go to make sure they get the
support they need. >> that can mean bringing in outside mental health treatment provider or if
it is an immediate need contacting the local health department so someone from the crisis
center can come in and do an evaluation >> i go back to the saying it takes a village. you find
that it really is systemic right now. >> the district is adding to the village. the school year and
extra counselor has been added to all the high schools. miller and others can spend time
focusing on fewer students. the district is also hosting listening sessions at schools about teen
suicide prevention and the importance of making it an ongoing conversation. finally the district
has hired a suicide prevention coordinator who planned staff training and creates partnerships
with local organizations to help get students and parents extra resources. >> it's getting the
information out to them that says here are some siglook for and here is who you can go to if
you don't know what to do. clear down from teacher admin to clerical staff and your security
and your janitors. everyone is involved in some way of making sure the kids are safe and taken
care of. >> miller says the biggest thing they try to do is make sure they have a connection with
an adult in the school and even peers. she says counselors often learn of an issue from another
kid or staff member reporting it to them. >>> the better together initiative focuses on ways the
community promotes mental wellness. if you or someone you know needs someone there are
people out there ready to listen right now. for more information about the story and resources
head to our real -- website kpt .com/better together.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 13 • 8:45 AM

B_SEP_OREG_87

so one of 3 digit number help those in crisis more than a 10 digit want to question in the mind
of the federal agency that wants to start a new 3 digit hotline for people feeling suicidal or
going through any other mental health crisis address reaching He's proposing to Meek 9.8 the
national number of Chatterjee has been looking into this the peace the you mention health
hotline and it could replace the existing suicide Prevention lifeline this is a great idea I'm not
even gold is a psychiatrist at Columbia University and an expert on suicide Prevention hunt
research shows that the suicide Prevention lifeline does save lives but cooled this hotel because
it once he tended to a number be one 802.3 talk one 802.3 8 to 5 5 even as I'm telling you what
that number as you know takes a while to even just say it and it can be difficult for people to
remember the number in the midst of a crisis people okay and have a cognitive shutdown or a
blank as any of us do when we can't remember things in times of extreme stress having a 9.8
number she says will make it easier for people to call David covington is the CEO of all right
international behavioral healthcare provide pieces Americans know to call 9.1 for all other kinds
of emergencies when my father was having chest pains we immediately called 9.1 inch it's very
straightforward what you do in our society United for medical undercurrent of emergency but
he says it isn't straightforward to seek help from mental health crises there's nothing Besides
the suicide Prevention lifeline and people hesitate to ask for help because of the stigma
attached to mental illness clinton hopes the new hot line with change about having a threedigit national hotline would go a long way you do need to mobilise change know it's OK if he
89

killed but he and other mental health advocates caution that just having a new hockey night
isn't enough and show the people who get the help they need again imagine gold the only way
that this is going to work it is I am additional services are funded that's because she says did
you number will increase call volumes COLAs might be left waiting longer and feeding this
courage and helpless Al franken is the executive director of crisis connections one of the
National suicide Prevention lifeline and test in the state of Washington we know that it's really
important for someone to get alive dancer very quickly woman call one of these numbers one
of these centers she says her organization attempt to respond to calls compared to seconds to
2018 was a rising number of calls for a couple of reasons the rapper logic performed his song
about suicidal off the grammy's though I mean as the number two with those type of bench
hotline us then a couple of celebrities died by suicide Prevention says her organization was
overwhelmed by the number of calls it was really difficult and Washington we had 45% increase
in calls state why did she have to find additional funds to respond to the high number of calls
French and expects said and called for a national 98 8 number becomes available and that's a
good thing how do we make sure that we have enough sustainable farming tough always
someone answering why because tragedy and care.
88.5 KNKX
Sep 13 • 8:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_66

the federal agency that wants to start a new 3 digit hotline for people feeling suicidal or going
through any other mental health crisis Treasury to Chatterjee has been looking into this the FCC
is proposing to make 9.8 still national number of the new mental health hotline and it could
replace the existing suicide Prevention lifeline this is a great idea matter and gold is a
psychiatrist at Columbia University and an expert on suicide Prevention because research
shows that the suicide Prevention lifeline does save lives but cool says the hotel because the
climate chae tended to Nimba they one 802.3 talk one 802.3 8 to 5 5 even assigned tell you
what that number as you know takes a while to even just say it and it can be difficult for people
to remember the number in the midst of a crisis people hen have that cognitive you shut down
or are you a blank as any of us do when we can't remember things in times of extreme stress
having a 9.8 number she says will make it easier for people to call David coming to witness the
CEO of all right into national behavioral health care provider he says americans know to call 9.1
for all other kinds of emergencies when my father was having chest pains we immediately
called 9.1 it's it's very straightforward it's what you do in our society it's I O Matic other kinds of
emergencies but he says it isn't straightforward to seek help for mental health crises clinton
hopes the new hot line with change that helping a three-digit national hotline would go a long
way in Guinea to normal Li change that it's okay to you kel og but he and other mental health
advocates caution that just having a new hot line isn't enough to show the people who get the
help they need again imagine gold the only way that this is going to work is in have additional
services are funded that's because she says the new number would increase call volumes call
despite being left waiting longer and feeding discouraged and helpless Al franken is executive
director of crisis connections one of the National suicide Prevention lifeline sent us in the state
of Washington we know that it's really important for someone to get a live answer very quickly
one might call it she says her organization attempt to respond to calls with picky seconds but in
90

2018 was a rising number of calls for a couple of reasons they're wrapped logic performed his
song about suicide vault the Grammy’s I know I did and that's the songs means for the number
to the suicide Prevention.
KOBI
Sep 13 • 6:10 PM

B_SEP_OREG_88

football is one of the most popular sports in the u-s... but participation is declining at the youth
level nationwide... and in oregon. many attribute this to what doctors have learned about
concussions. across oregon... high school football participation is dropping. the oregon school
activities association, or o-s-a-a, says in the fall of 20-10 .... the number of high school football
players in oregon was just under 14-thousand-5 hundred. this past year, it was less than 13thousand. "i think when the concern for concussions came out. you know when you hear about
the nfl players, the suicide rate amongst nfl players and they trace that back to brain trauma. i
think that sent a shock wave that we better start paying closer attention." but youth programs
in the rogue valley... through high school... say they're doing just that. ... working to make the
game safer.
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 12 • 10:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_89

good evening, i'm lee anderson. as you may know, this is national suici awareness week.
deschute county health servic officials say there's been a steady increase in the rate of suicide
over t last ten years. max goldwass has more on this, and joins us now. ma that's right lee.
tonight bend, dozens of people took part in a candle light vigil to honor those who took their
own live one local loss survivor i spoke with called suicide in the community a 'publi health
crisis' 'missing you" 'love you to t moon and back. these are some of the messages left by loved
ones for those who died by suicid it was an emotional and powerful service, with speakers,
poetry a music. afterward, i aske people to share wi me how suicide's impacted their lives. ###
"we've lost 5 people to suicide over nearly 20 years, from my father to close friends who were
our age, t two 17-year-old teenagers." "23 years ago this month, my son died of suicide. he was
16, he went to mountain view high school "my uncle jim suicided, after he lost his vision
overnight and didn't think he could continue living alone "it's been shattering in its effect on
our family, our friends and our community. i also asked them why servic like these are so
meaningful a important. ### "i got a warm memory of my son and the thought that i could be
there for someone else "it is so empowering to have this kind of support of other people. you
don't know them personally at all, you may not even exchange names, and yet you they're
there to support one another. "i believe it is a huge, huge issue. the more we talk about it, the
less of a chance it's going to have to destr us officials say middle aged white men are the largest
demographic fo people who have died by suicide in the area. i'm told deschutes county has the
fif highest rate of suicide out oregon's 32 counties the state as a whole has the highest rate of
mental illness in the country according to quotewizard. for more information about suicide
prevention visit k-t-v-z's let's ta page under the community tab o our home pag in the control
room.
91

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 13 • 5:40 AM

B_SEP_WASH_67

so what 3 digit number help those in crisis more than a 10 digit one the question in the mind of
the federal agency that wants to start a new 3 digit hotline for people feeling suicidal or going
through any other mental health crisis and has reached its energy has been looking into this the
FCC is proposing to Meek 9.8 national number of the new mental health hotline and it could
replace the existing suicide Prevention lifeline this is a great idea the matter and gold is a
psychiatrist at Columbia University and an expert on suicide Prevention research shows that the
suicide Prevention lifeline does save lives but cool says the hotline has climbed he tended to
number they won 800 to 7 3 talk one 802.3 8 to 5 5 even as I'm telling you what that number is
it takes a while to even just say it and it can be difficult for people to remember the number in
the midst of a crisis people 10 have a cognitive you shut down or are you a blank as any of us do
when Louis can't remember things in times of extreme stress having a 9.8 number she says will
make it easier for people to call steve coming in is the CEO of all right international behavior
health care provider cases Americans know to call 9.1 for all other kinds of emergencies when
my father was having chest pains we immediately called 9.1 it's it's very straightforward what
you do in our society UNITED to fly or medical or other kinds of emergencies but he says it isn't
straightforward to seek help for mental health crises coming in Hopes the new hot line we
change that having a three-digit hotline league would go a long way in beginning to normalize
and it's okay to kill but he and other mental health advocates caution that just having a new
hockey line isn't enough and show other people get the help they need again imagine gold the
only way that this is going to work is it Yes additional services are funded that's because she
says did you number would increase call volumes call us might be left waiting longer and feeling
discouraged and helpless Al franken is executive director of crisis connections one of the
National suicide Prevention lifeline sent us in the state of Washington we know that it's really
important for someone to get a live dancer very quickly what they call she says her organization
attempt to respond to calls with picky seconds but in 20 E 18 was a rising number of calls for a
couple of reasons they're drop below budget performed a song about suicide of popped the
grammy's of 0 0 songs mean for the number two a suicide Prevention hotline and a couple of
celebrities died by suicide franken says her organization was overwhelmed by the number of
calls it was really difficult and Washington we had a 45% increase in calls state why did she have
to find additional funds to respond to the higher number of calls franken expects ascension
called for the national 98 8 number.
KFFX (FOX)
Sep 13 • 10:06 PM

B_SEP_WASH_68

a south Carolina family is suing the united states over the death of their son. 7 year old navy
veteran luke smyth served the united states of america from 1999 to 2004. he was diagnosed
with a service related mental illness---and honorably discharged from the navy. his family says
he turned to the v-a for care---but died at the hands of the medical staff who were supposed to
help him. allison latos has been working for weeks on this investigation. a navy air-flight
launching captain.... airplane mechanic.... a son....and a brother.... this is the 37 year old man
92

luke smyth's family remembers. they didn't lose their son to service overseas....his tragic death
happened september 8th, 2017, here, inside the william jennings bryan dorn va medical center
in columbia, south carolina. smyth, was diagnosed with a mental illness -- that was related to
his military service. and was receiving treatment near charleston... when impending hurricane
irma forced him to be evacuated to columbia. video from inside the v-a facility shows smyth
enter a room with other patients. seconds later---an altercation---and medical staff rush in. two
men immediately tackled smyth to the ground, one putting him in a headlock. so he is pressed
flat on this floor with someone who has their arm around his throat, pressing on his corated
another person is on his back pressing his belly into the floor which means it is going up into his
body cavity and pressing on his diaphragm thats how we breath....attorney randy hood
represents smyth's family. he tells me they are devastated and outraged by what happened
next. the video shows v-a employees restrained smyth at 2:39pm. now out of sensitivity we're
freezing the video. because 10 minutes later... at 2:49pm an employee checked for a pulse, and
less than minute later, they began cpr. but the navy veteran did not survive. the coroner's
report lists his manner of death---as homicide. allison- no one was ever charged? no one was
charged with a crime, none, zero, zip. a homicide and no one was charged. who is going to be
held accountable? smyth's family filed this civil lawsuit against the united states over their son's
death. jeremy: it is a horrifying video to watch. it is tragic. jeremy butler is a navy veteran
too....and c-e-o of the veterans advocacy organization---iraq and afghanistan veterans of
america. i am incredibly angry. this is a veteran who turned to the group that is supposed to be
taking care of veterans, to the va, and that is where all of our veterans should feel safe turning
to for help butler says smyth's death is a horrific example of the lack of adequate mental health
care veterans nationwide receive. we are already at 20 a day dying by suicide, we have a hugely
unmet mental health crisis thats going on in the veteran community. concerns over veterans'
care go beyond mental health.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Sep 12 • 9:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_90

pet hospital national chain headquartered in Portland has started a suicide prevention effort to
help its employees the centers for disease control and Prevention finds that suicide rates
among female centenarians 3 and a half times higher than the general population it's classes
high for male veterinarians their program teaches that areas to communicate with her coworkers and checking with mental health a nationwide program was announced today.
KMVU (FOX)
Sep 12 • 11:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_91

we turn now to a murder suicide committed by a los angeles attorney. a 60-year-old eric
lertzman shot his wife and 19-year-old son to death before turning the gun on himself. his
daughter, who is in the home of the time, was able to escape through a bathroom window. we
turn now to caitlyn becker who joins us from our l.a. newsroom. caitlin, this is such a tragic
story what details do you have for us here? >> it jesse a whole community is struggling to
understand why eric lertzman, deputy city attorney, killed his family and then turned the gun
93

on himself. from what we know, lertzman was in the home with wife sandy, son michael, and
his daughter. she says that she saw her father with a handgun and according to what she told
the neighbor he took a shot of the girl before she was able to run to a bathroom and climb out
of the window. so they both her brother and mom were still in the house and were shot and
killed by lertzman, who then shot himself. >> Jesse: do authorities have a motive for this killing?
>> according to Sandy’s sister, eric and undergone gonna surgery about six weeks ago. he was
in a lot of pain and on pain medication and she says the act was completely out of character for
this otherwise minor mentored father. >> jesse: this is so sad and authorities are still
investigating this crime. they did recover two guns from the residence. caitlyn becker in los
Angeles thank you.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 13 • 8:31 PM

B_SEP_OREG_92

a Marion county man who shot and killed his wife-- was sentenced today in court. clayton
standfill was initially charged with murder... but under a plea deal-- he was sentenced this
morning on a charge of manslaughter. the victim's family gave powerful statements-- full of
pain and anger. this case started back in october of 20-17... when stanfill showed up at a fire
station with a gunshot wound. he had just left his home-- where he shot and killed his wife-judy stanfill, who worked at the marion county circuit court. stanfill claimed she took her own
life. today in court-- family members called that claim disgusting. 00:08:03 to suggest or claim
for even one moment that she killed herself and it was suicide...butted to:00:08:20 not for one
moment have you fooled any of us, her family, her friends, or her co-workers her co-workers
family members painted a heartbreaking picture of an abusive relationship. the statements
they gave in court were agonized and resentful. they told stanfill to never contact any of them
again-- and said they would raise their children to never fall prey to someone like him. 00:12:04
we will educate the children of our family so that we can make sure when they come against
monsters like you, they will not fall into their trap. after pleading guilty to manslaughter-stanfill was sentenced to ten years in prison. a case like this represents a worst outcome of
spousal abuse. if you or someone you know needs help-- there are resources. you can contact
the national domestic violence hotline at 1-800-799-safe.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 13 • 3:30 PM

B_SEP_WASH_69

Let's go first to Bob in Canby who heard a young lady call into the show and she was talking
about the fact that sadly her husband a military that had committed suicide and she said the
gunman killed him I I said my opinion was that the man had decided to take his own life and
that is sad the gun was merely the instrument Bob welcome to first memo Friday what's on
your mind my is you've committed suicide all but not back I miss Herm he decided to hang
himself in his closet with a belt to sorry I don't mind found wires and know I it booth a guy and
killed that lady husband who helped wife starting to jump off a bridge if lady's husband came
jumped off a bridge and so my condolences to work she's angry I'm sure but it wasn't the guy
and I like to reach out to or keep I you know what that's very nice message tonight tried to be is
94

not as generous as I could because afterall the woman lost her husband the man served in the
military all of that is to be you know given gratitude for his service and sympathy for her loss
but I think she wanted to find someone or some thing to blame and so she's joined the gun
debate I pointed out to her that when people say the reason America has a high suicide rate is
because we have an awful lot of americans over 110 million who own guns I point out to the
tightest gun control nations in the world Japan and South korea have much higher suicide rate.
They have almost no civilian private ownership of guns and I and she demanded to know what's
the mechanism that you know what they used to commit suicide I didn't know right off and
because I didn't think it mattered but I got an email later in the day from a listener who pointed
out the usually they do the same thing that sadly your son did which is either used rope to hang
themselves where they jump off a tall building are tall play a piece of land that is sad but if you
believe that banning guns and disarming a 100 million of your fellow citizens would actually
reduce the suicide rate you need to take a look at countries where guns are already effectively
ban and find that that's not the case I very much appreciate the call.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 13 • 12:27 PM

B_SEP_OREG_93

Let's go first to Bob in Canby who heard a young lady call into the show and she was talking
about the fact that sadly her husband a military that had committed suicide and she said the
gunman killed him I I said my opinion was that the man had decided to take his own life and
that is sad the gun was merely the instrument Bob welcome to first amendment Friday what's
on your mind I owe my show you committed suicide but not like it he decided to hang himself
in his closet with the belt I know my son lawyers you know the good the getting killed that lady
doesn't know or eyesight you could jump off a bridge if lady's husband could jump off the
bridge it's my condolences to work she's angry I'm sure but it wasn't a guy and I like to reach
out to her keeps you know what that's very nice message tonight tried to view is not a
journalist I could because afterall the woman's lost her husband the man served in the military
all of that is to be you know given gratitude for his service and sympathy for her loss but I think
she wanted to find someone or something to blame and so she's joined the gun debate I
pointed out to her it when people say the reason America has a high suicide rate is because we
have an awful lot of Americans over 110 million who own guns I point out the to the tightest
gun control nations in the world Japan and South Korea have much higher suicide rates they
have almost no civilian private ownership of guns I and she demanded to know what's the
mechanism that you know what they used to commit suicide I didn't know right off I can
because I didn't think it mattered but I got an email later in the day from a listener who pointed
out the usually they do the same thing said earlier Sunday which is they either used rope to
hang themselves where they jump off a tall building or a toll play a piece of land that is sad but
if you believe that banning guns and disarming a 100 million of your fellow citizens would
actually reduce the suicide rate you need to take a look at countries where guns are already
effectively ban and find that that's not the case I very much appreciate the call.

95

KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 13 • 6:21 PM

B_SEP_OREG_94

we are trying to change the world with kindness. >> steve: we've seen them within our region
and across our country. they're known as kindness campaigns. even right here at katu we've
launched one, it's known as "kind is better." there are group efforts to change a culture,
brighten a mood, but do they really work? all week long we've been working with our
competitors, sharing stories and resources all in hopes of raising awareness about the state's
suicide crisis. it's a very heavy topic but tonight we wanted to end eon a happy note. genevieve
reaume dug into the science behind kindness campaigns. >> genevieve: from inside schools ->> we just want awareness of collecdness. >> genevieve: to the sides of small town roads. it
seems as if compassion campaigns are popping up everywhere. >> people being kind lead to
more people being kind. >> genevieve: the mission's really universal. >> just to let everyone
know they belong and they're welcome here. >> genevieve: they certainly don't hurt. the
question is, do they help? >> your mood, your heart, your health, it can help you with feeling
that sense of happiness and joy. >> genevieve: in a simple answer, yes. dr. lisa rudd, a
psychologist, says there's scientific proof. >> kindness changes the chemicals in our body. >>
genevieve: she says act of kinds in trigger oxytosin. >> that's that feel-good kentucky cuddle
hormone they talk about. >> genevieve: it gives you a sense of well-being, a warm fuzzy feeling.
or as these lake oswego women call a sugar lump. >> sugar lump is the feeling in your heart
when you do something kind for somebody else. >> once you feel it, you know what it is and it's
contagious and you want to do more of it. you want to give more back. >> genevieve: they've
paired with the city of l.o. for a summer of sweetness. the goal, 5,000 random act of kinds in.
and it's catching on. >> kindness is fun. feels good. >> genevieve: because kindness is
contagious. a university of california san diego study found that giving generates a, quote,
domino effect in which one person's generosity spreads first to three people. and then to the
nine people that those three people interact with in the future. >> kindness weaves a
wonderful web. >> genevieve: and the thing is, it doesn't have to be much. >> it doesn't cost
any money to be kind. >> genevieve: even a smile can spark a fire. genevieve reaume, katu
news.
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 12 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_95

as you may know, this is county health service awareness week. deschutes s say there's been a
steady increase in the rate officialof suicide over the has more on this, and he last ten years.
max Goldwasser joins us now. max? bend, dozens of people that's right lee. tonight in took part
in alives. one local loss s candle light vigil to honor those who took their own 'public urvivor i
spoke withalled suicide in the community a health crisis'. moon and back.' 'missing you" 'love
you to the these are some of the messages left by loved ones for those who died by
suicide.otional and powerful service, with speakers, it was an em poetry and people to share
with music. afterward, i asked me how suicide's impacted their ### lives. "we' father to close
friends who were our age, to ve lost 5 people to suicide over nearly 20 years, from my two 17year-old teide. he was 16, he went to mountain view high enagers." "23 years ago this month,
96

my son died of suic school." "my uncle jim suhink he could continue icided, after he lost his
vision overnight and didn't tn shattering in its effect on our family, living alone." "it's beeour
friends and our community." i also asked them why services like these are so meaningful and
important. ### a warm memory of my son and the thought that i c "i gotould be there for
someone else." "it is so empowering to have thispersonally at all, you may kind of support of
other people. you don't know them not even exchange " names, and yet you they're there to
support one another.issue. the more we talk about it, the less of a "i believe it is a huge, huge
chance it's going to have to destroy us."mographic for officials say middle aged white men are
the largest de people who havty has the fifthe died by suicide in the area. i'm told deschutes
coun highest rate of suicide out of oregon's 32 counties. the state as a whole has the highest
rate of mental illness in the country, acco ide prevention visit k-t-v-z's.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 13 • 12:22 PM

B_SEP_OREG_96

glad to be with you on this first Amendment Friday when they go to Let's go first to Bob in
Canby who heard a young lady call into the show and she was talking about the fact that sadly
her husband a military that had committed suicide and she said the gunman killed him I I said
my opinion was that the man had decided to take his own life and that is sad the gun was
merely the instrument Bob welcome to first amendment Friday what's on your mind I owe my
show you committed suicide but not like it he decided to hang himself in his closet with the belt
I know my son lawyers you know the good the getting killed that lady doesn't know or eyesight
you could jump off a bridge if lady's husband could jump off the bridge it's my condolences to
work she's angry I'm sure but it wasn't a guy and I like to reach out to her keeps you know what
that's very nice message tonight tried to view is not a journalist I could because afterall the
woman's lost her husband the man served in the military all of that is to be you know given
gratitude for his service and sympathy for her loss but I think she wanted to find someone or
something to blame and so she's joined the gun debate I pointed out to her it when people say
the reason America has a high suicide rate is because we have an awful lot of americans over
110 million who own guns I point out the to the tightest gun control nations in the world Japan
and South korea have much higher suicide rates they have almost no civilian private ownership
of guns I and she demanded to know what's the mechanism that you know what they used to
commit suicide I didn't know right off I can because I didn't think it mattered but I got an email
later in the day from a listener who pointed out the usually they do the same thing said earlier
Sunday which is they either used rope to hang themselves where they jump off a tall building or
a toll play a piece of land that is sad but if you believe that banning guns and disarming a 100
million of your fellow citizens would actually reduce the suicide rate you need to take a look at
countries where guns are already effectively ban and find that that's not the case I very much
appreciate the call.

97

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 14 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_97

the two people found dead in a residence in vancouver last week has been ruled as a murdersuicide. the bodies were found on september 5 at the 8400 block of mount olympus avenue.
medical examiners report that 32-year-old jennifer robichaud was killed by gun shot wounds.
64-year-old richard aune died of a self inflicted gun shot wound. no further ior h haseen
released at this time. family of a columbia county teen found dead in a roadside ditch are still
searching for answers, six months after her death. on march 13, the sister of 18-year-old sarah
zuber discovered her body just off neer city road, not far from their home in goble. there were
no obvious physical injuries. investigators have not said what caused her death. zuber's mother
issued a statement today, saying, at times the grief is unbearable, so much so that only a groan
escapes my airway, and the tears flow unceasingly through the lonely night. she also added,
someone knows the answers to these questions. please. from the depths of my heart, i forgive
you. i just need to know the truth. we have much more about the death and investigation, and
you can read the full statement on our website at koin.com
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 14 • 7:35 AM

B_SEP_OREG_98

a sad update now on the deaths of a man and a woman inside a vancouver home. the clark
county medical examiner says they died from an apparent murder-suicide. 32-year-old jennifer
robichaud was shot in the head by 64-year-old robert ayud who then shot himself. >>> it is
never easy to report these kinds of stories. we want to remind you if you or someone you know
needs help, maybe eve a person to talk with, there are resources available. lines for life is one
of those. you can reach them at 1-800-2 # 3-2755. we also have resources on our website,
kptv.com
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 14 • 8:40 PM

B_SEP_WASH_70

this week we observe the world suicide awareness day and for that matter the entire month
entire week is dedicated to suicide Prevention ofhings suicide awareness but in particular on
the big screens above times square in new York city it was marked by a video of jonah across
the Street a young looking guy could be a Marine could be an army veteran could be a Navy
veteran could be any any sort of soldier sailor Airman or Marine dressed in civilian clothes he
tries across the crosswalk and he's met with the exact twin of himself a fistfight sort of in
suitors left's rights crosses jabs they wrestle to the ground and shows this gentleman is truly in
the grips of a fight for his life that's what millions of people looked up and saw above the
sidewalks in times square new York city earlier this week the video representation of moral
injury which is a relatively recent term used to describe but soldiers face for centuries it is a
wound on the conscience like a battle going on within ourselves and here to talk more about it
with us is the director of the shade center for moral injury and volunteers of America Dr Rita
brock doctor thank you for coming on the shell that I did what I can do tossed me a little bit
98

about this campaign we saw yesterday volunteers of America which the director and is trying to
do something to address the moral injury which is related to the suicide in so many ways talk to
me about the ad campaign and why it exists I can move the CEO of appear in America are I D
club patrons you think about hillary if Y root implement a program note on period and the
growth week that the pilot program and the pilot program in a one-bedroom flat they could do
I love the world to inform you about you getting you ready to go public Aware of that very core
commitment to function in America do not educate our own people and the public about the
world and they had heard a boom something that we did our own thing I have to we could get
it and your ego that may be a big get back to Earth and tampering and better am but when
people really more injury even know all of the attention has been paid could contend for a a
but it's also clear that it took better and I keep thinking as he talks about first responders is 18
years Wow some horrible devastating event and new York city and what that most of the line
for them but I suppose we're here for a second doctor before we get to a clinic all about the
word moral injury here with me what that looks like when you say first responders military
people have it it emanates from something that happened that they can't change the for ever
carry in their conscience right is that kind of writing her rite aid we are pouring to me that alone
and if you're worthy of banks and our currents and to guard guy Dan Amira week week we are
great people because we hit can with to doing the right things that people are caring about
them and I am so when when we think that when we hop we saw someone more we are
harmed even when we don't feel like we deserved it there and art it is some kind of fear
response we have today a pt of the year than in camps in response one that happened to me
the one wre we saw someone real harm we start making moral judgments and it and when that
happens we will apologize and try to make him own but sometimes a magnet cheated the harm
is so bad there's no way to really do that but maybe people pick somebody you if you fail the
same among meet I feel responsible that a guy eat like maybe you really could have done it
maybe you couldn't save them but as a double so there are a lot of coping recommend them
dad felt kind we them both score PPF they need that's an important point was stopped down
on just highlight more injury and PTSD radically different but for those suffering from them on
the outside we often see the same things the drinking drugs anger rage inability to get along
with others and a constant undercurrent of depression we'll have more on landry he it means
he'll actually remember what happened and you're analyzing it and some don't some place in
your brain going hate but that's not right so this guilt this Wade can fester inside of us and it
can become a real cancer in our life and it can affect you just described so many different ways
the alcohol the drinking which of course Spyros the drain gets down to suicide and that is often
responsible for that head space yet heard some of our bravest and finest individual have taken
the wrong life because I couldn't get past this I noticed you were doing something with
volunteers of America as you try to treat these more injuries resilience training talk to me about
that so I won't what we do tank training do we need we do multiple pull own strategy is for
helping people annex chest that horrible place for themselves it's fighting with them and we
kidnapped by age using art we start our process look better and having them make a man's of
their military say switches often quite revealing we also have been writing about their life
experiences both being loved and failing ug ring and reached the clock them through sheer
reach that I did to earn or writings in order to try to hold them X analyze those feelings because
if there are a lot of inside you they are like a cancer so you have to actually up put a light on
99

them that's amazing look at it because I've seen it I Walter Reed myself some of The art therapy
is the difference between what the veterans started making and what they end up making
months later we're radically different it was like blacks and grays and reads the beginning
showing signs of death and rage and then at the very end after some treatment after some
sessions of the giving vivid colors how to do it in a loop I think it all worse I am more confident
team what I punctured be and about relationships so in order to Re build yourself you need to
be a lot and so we we do you think it could help you know there's a are commonly shared
military experience for them even if it was two years ago I take my share of culture and they
believe they won't be Jon stick and we actually teach them at the beginning how do they treat
others with compassion it sounds amazing and you're doing amazing work which brings us back
to times square new York city the big screens the billboards of times square this ad campaign
that showing that the war inside is real people fighting you guys are on the front lines fighting
back trying to put veterans and and all different people with more injuries back together
making them hold on how is this going on and how can we support to go to be no way dot the
work and the fact we have a whole bunch of improvisation it knows story article on moral injury
if you want to get to that directly juts I feel I got our back flash injury and don't get wet she
loves it she quoted the Website and donate you can get wet I think get in formation my long
hair clutched hot technique fight email & R block at the L.A. got poor start brock so appreciate
you telling us more about what more injury is the most sincerely appreciate all the work you're
doing to help save them together I think this is one of the biggest steps we can do to do
something to prevent future suicides thank you for helping me spread the word I'm maybe
veteran phil Briggs and you can find more stories like this at connecting vets Dotcom and I'll talk
to you again next week.
KOBI
Sep 14 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_99

a group of veterans from around southern oregon are putting a spotlight on the number of
veterans who die each day by suicide. dozens gathered at veteran’s memorial park in medford
this morning to talk about suicide and its impact on the veteran community. the v-a estimates
22 veterans die by suicide each day... that's more than 8 thousand a year. organizers of today's
event say in the last six months... four veterans in southern oregon took their life. "stopping
someone from committing suicide even though it may be inconvenient it may be embarrassing,
it may be painful at the moment, saving someone's life is worth it." veterans who are struggling
can call the veterans crisis line at 1-800-273-8255. family members can call the same number.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 14 • 8:45 PM

B_SEP_WASH_71

Veteran Phil breaks now this week we observe the world suicide awareness day and for that
matter the entire month entire week is dedicated to suicide Prevention ofhings suicide
awareness but in particular on the big screens above times square in new York city it was
marked by a video of jonah across the Street a young looking guy could be a Marine could be an
army veteran could be a Navy veteran could be any any sort of soldier sailor Airman or Marine
100

dressed in civilian clothes he tries across the crosswalk and he's met with the exact twin of
himself a fistfight sort of in suitors left's rights crosses jabs they wrestle to the ground and
shows this gentleman is truly in the grips of a fight for his life that's what millions of people
looked up and saw above the sidewalks in times square new York city earlier this week the
video representation of moral injury which is a relatively recent term used to describe but
soldiers face for centuries it is a wound on the conscience like a battle going on within ourselves
and here to talk more about it with us is the director of the shade center for moral injury and
volunteers of America Dr Rita brock doctor thank you for coming on the shell that I did what I
can do tossed me a little bit about this campaign we saw yesterday volunteers of America
which the director and is trying to do something to address the moral injury which is related to
the suicide in so many ways talk to me about the ad campaign and why it exists.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 14 • 7:13 AM

B_SEP_OREG_100

>>> and active, adventurous guy. >> that's him hanging upside down. >>> he knew how to
make a robust up laughing. >> always jail joking, always made people laugh. being there for
other people. >> reporter: he was tied with his family. especially his cousin justin. >> they called
us brothers. we did a lot of things together. >> reporter: he was training as an apprentice with
the local union and learning to weld. >> he loved it, he operated things pretty quickly, did the
apprentice program. >>> at the time justin didn't realize how much his cousin was struggling.
no one really did. >> i knew he was upset and down a bit but i think he was that low. >>
reporter: he never imagined jeremy would do something so permanent. >> everything seemed
pretty normal, i talked him a week prior, a couple days prior. >> reporter: at 34 jeremy took his
own life. when justin and his family look back, they can see more clearly. >> he started breaking
away from us, not knowing, we should've reach out to him more. i don't blame myself, but i do
feel like there is a whole. >> i thought quite a bit of the individual, it was a tough loss across the
board. >> reporter: jeremy's passing push the union to step up eric >> when that happened, we
were reactionary. as probably most organizations or individuals are. >> reporter: you a local
290 decided to hold suicide prevention trainings for their members. >> if the bigger group is
aware of it then the person in the situation will get noticed. >> reporter: the union representing
people who work with pipes wants to knocked on the stigma around mental health and suicide.
>> it's a difficult conversation that we need to have sometimes, that will remove that stigma. >>
in the construction industry, where it is a male- dominated industry, talking about your feelings
isn't something that comes naturally. seeking help isn't something that comes naturally among
a group of workers who are helpers. >> reporter: the twice year training covers three steps.
question, persuade, refer. >> you learn to ask, to talk, to bring it up. a lot of people to difficulty
approaching someone they think may be having a problem. >>> a cdc study found that men
who work in the construction industry have the highest rate of suicide compared to other jobs.
researchers say nailing down the exact rule work might plan suicide risk is complicated, so
many life factors are at play. >> reporter: those entrenched in the field have some insights. >> it
is really very intense, very high pace, high-pressure work. >> reporter: a tray that takes a
physical toll also. >> there's a cyclical nature to construction work. you will have times of heavy,
hard work, and then a layoff period. the inconsistency can create insecurity. >>> the cdc says
101

the workplace is a powerful but unused place for suicide prevention efforts. >> i believe it's
helping, i've heard from people that said hey, i wasn't in a good place, and that has helped. >>
many people express depression. >>> if they can reach someone struggling in these union halls.
>> together we can create a culture of acceptance and support. >> i think it's huge. >>> justin
fields they have a real opportunity to prevent another life lost to suicide. >> just supporting
someone. just getting the support from them and letting them know they aren't alone.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 14 • 8:45 AM

B_SEP_OREG_101

all this week we've been bringing you stories about youth mental health and suicide. it's all part
of an unprecedented statewide media partnership called breaking the silence. but katu
necessary has been talking about youth mental health for almost a year now. in today's "kind is
better" report, katu's genevieve reaume shows us how the project is making waves. >> you'll
see that green countdown. that's the next element. >> it's pretty awesome. >> i realize there'd
are only 15 more fridays till christmas! just in case you wanted to give me an early christmas
present. >> genevieve: amanda better known as ice with live 95.5, knows pop. maybe as well as
the queen of pop. so she knows what's popular. >> there's times where i'm like, call me right
now, how were you kind today? >> genevieve: ing and she wants people to realize, kind is cool.
>> that's why i think radio is still important. because there's that connection. >> genevieve:
she's making waves over the air. >> i just want people to be happy. >> genevieve: and in
person. >> say hey guys! >> genevieve: she's a part of the kind is better youth advisory board,
working to width to spread kindness in the community. a few weeks ago they stuffed backpacks
for students at it ison elementary. >> we were stuffing backpacks over 400 backpacks full of
supplies, folders, pens, erasers, color pen sells. >> genevieve: nearly a year has passed since we
launched the "kind is better" campaign. in this second year -- >> we want to do more action. we
want to start doing more of the kindness that we were trying to make people aware about the
first year. >> genevieve: because the best gift is kindness. and you don't need to wrap that. >> it
doesn't cost anything. and smiling at somebody could change somebody's day. >> genevieve:
genevieve reaume, katu news. >> wesleigh: you can see this story and all the ones we've put
together for this project at breakingthesilenceor.com, you can find all of our "kind is better"
stories at katu.com katu.com
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 13 • 9:31 PM

B_SEP_OREG_102

a marion county man who shot and killed his wife-- was sentenced today in court. clayton
standfill was initially charged with murder... but under a plea deal-- he was sentenced this
morning on a charge of manslaughter. this case started back in october of 20- 17... when stanfill
showed up at a fire station with a gunshot wound. he had just left his home-- where he shot
and killed his wife-- judy stanfill, who worked at the marion county circuit court. stanfill claimed
she took her own life. but today in court-- family members called that claim disgusting.
00:08:03 to suggest or claim for even one moment that she killed herself and it was
suicide...butted to:00:08:20 not for one moment have you fooled any of us, her family, her
102

friends, or her co-workers family members also painted a heartbreaking picture of an abusive
relationship -- telling stanfill in court -- to never contact any of them again-- adding they would
raise their children to never fall prey to someone like him. 00:12:04 we will educate the
children of our family so that we can make sure when they come against monsters like you,
they will not fall into their trap. after pleading guilty to manslaughter-- stanfill was sentenced to
ten years in prison. a case like this represents a worst outcome of spousal abuse. if you or
someone you know needs help-- there are resources. you can contact the national domestic
violence hotline at 1-800-799-safe.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 14 • 6:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_103

special gathering took place today in medford to address a very important issue facing some of
the members of the veteran community, suicide. sammy shaktah will show us more. >>
reporter: many veterans names' who have given service to our country, and today, people
raising awareness about suicide and how many veterans commit suicide. the topic of
discussion, suicide . one that is oftentimes left unaddressed. on saturday afternoon, at the
veterans memorial park in medford, terry haynes, the chairman of the noncommissioned
officers association's local chapter, talked about a program aimed to touch on why 22 veterans
commit suicide every day, according to haines. >> in the last six months, we've had four
suicides here that i am aware of, from veterans. and when you factor in that 22 veterans a day
is a national figure, four of them from right here in the rogue valley in a really actively short
period of time. >> reporter: haines says stopping someone from committing suicide is beyond
important, even if it may be an uncomfortable, embarrassing, or an easy conversation to have.
he also mentioned from personal experience that it is something you never want to see
happen. anyone can learn more by contacting the ncoa local chapter, number 1260. as people
heard the reality of what may go unseen to the everyday public, a chaplain commenced a
prayer in hopes that more veterans and others can be helped before it is too late. >> give us the
strength to see them, lord, that we will be able to talk to them in your name the way you
instructed us to. we pray for the strength of god and the strength of jesus christ, lord, that we
will be able to get through that wall to that person and love on them, lord. >>> reporter: as
people came together together to honor those who lost their lives to suicide, they are saying
it's an important issue that people should know about. with your connection in medford,
sammy shaktah, news10.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 14 • 5:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_104

emily: september is suicide awareness month. that also includes the suicide crisis hitting u.s.
servicepeople who hae e it back home. now, one veteran is hoping to raise awareness by
walking across the entire country. so far, he's halfway there -- stopping in kansas. grant demars
has the story. grant: jeremy miller is halfway through his journey. sunday morning, he will start
walking again. this time, with a special sendoff from the american legion. one step at a time,
the 30-year-old is bringing light to an issue he is familiar with. >> after i got back from my
103

deployment, within three years, we lust for guys to suicide. didn't lose anybody in iraq. that
kind of hits hard.
about four months ago, i tried to take my own life. grant: that is when he decided to turn things
around. he hopes his cross-country journey helps people open up about mental health and
know they are not alone. >> in trying to reach as many people as possible. grant: he says the
people here in kansas could not be more supportive. >> everybody has been waving at me,
stopping to see if i need anything, bringing me water. i have had probably the best luck this
whole time. you can only find that here in kansas. it has been an incredible adventure. grant: if
you want to follow miller on his journey, follow him on his facebook page, and he also has a
gofundme you can support him with during his travels.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 14 • 8:20 PM

B_SEP_OREG_105

the roles of local school counselors are evolving. they already do so much to try and help kids
succeed... with things like academics-- their future careers-- even sometimes disagreements
with other kids. but now more than ever-- they're tackling adult issues too-- like suicide and
mental health. as part of our "better together" initiative -- fox 12's haley rush sat down with a
counselor working in a local district. haley lookliveit's never been harder to be a kid or
teenager... if you ask school counselors. they're the ones who day in day out talk with students
who are going through something. and with mental health and suicide prevention increasingly
in the spotlight... their jobs are always changing. pkg when it comes to mental health issues...
school counselors like melissa miller... are the ones on the front lines. Sot melissa miller mcnary
high school 02:00 "all counselors are trained in mental health and we're the go to in the
building. so, if we have any mental health crisis, they come to us first." 02:10 miller has been a
school counselor for five-years... working at mcnary high school in the salem-keizer school
district. and in that short time... she's seen how topics like anxiety... depression... and suicide...
have switched from a conversation to an actual crisis. sot(melissa) 04:44 "it does seem like
there's been an increase in just the mental health part of things." 04:48 it was about threeyears ago when miller says mcnary high school experienced devastaing losses... after two
students took their lives in a couple weeks of each other.sot (miller) 07:25 "then a little over a
year later, we lost one of our seniors and he was one of mine and we were pretty close, so that
was my first experience of going through something where it really hit so close." 07:44and
salem-keizer is also just coming off of a tough year.a spokesperson tells us it was last school
year... when six kids in the district died of suicide. miller says the district is doing whatever it
can to prevent lives lost... and that means when it comes to mental health issues... her job is
always changing. sot (miller) 05:32 "it's very thorough now. it's thorough and as a counselor,
you figure out how to make that thorough feel genuine to the kid." 05:41 she says when they
learn of someone who might need help... it usually starts with an immediate conversation...
followed by a suicide risk assessment questionaire. sot(miller) 04:08 "once we kind of find out
what level is this crisis, then we know where to refer them to, what resources they might need,
if we need to pull parents in, if it's founded or unfounded and it just drives that direction we
need to go to make sure they get the support that they need." 04:26 that could mean bringing
104

in an outside mental health treatment provider.or if it's an immediate need... contacting the
local health department so someone from the youth and family crisis center can come in and
do an evaluation. sot(miller) 08:57 "i always go back to that saying it takes a village. You find
that it really is systemic right now." 09:04 and the district is adding to that village. starting this
school year... an extra counselor has been added to all of the high schools... so miller and
others can spend more time focusing on fewer students. the district has also hosted listening
sessions at schools about teen suicide prevention... and the importance of making it an ongoing
conversation. and finally... the district has hired a suicide prevention coordinator... who plans
staff training... and creates partnerships with local organizations to help get students and
parents extra resources. sot(miller)09:28 "so it's really about getting the information out to
them and saying here's some signs to look for if you're thinking something's going on with a kid
that you need help with and here's who you can go to if you don't know what to do."
09:39sot(miller)09:13 "i mean clear down from teacher, admin to your clerical staff, your
security, your janitors, everyone is involved in some way, in making sure kids are safe and taken
care of."haley lookliveof course miller says the biggest thing they try and do is make sure kids
have a connection with an adult in the school... and hopefully even peers. while miller works to
form meaningful relationships with all her students... she says counselors often learn of an
issue from another kid or staff member reporting it to them. in studio haley rush fox 12 oregon.
fox 12's "better together" initiative focuses on ways our community promotes mental wellness.
if you, or someone you know, needs help -- there are people out there, ready to listen. for more
information about this story and resources -- head to our website: kptv dot-com slash "better
together."
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 13 • 10:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_106

tonight the clark county medical examiner tell us us the man and woman were both shot dead
inside the vancouver home from an apparent murder suicide. the medical examiner said the 32
-year-old of portland died after she was shot in the head by 64-year-old richard of vancouver
who also shot himself with a handgun. this unfolded thursday night on a quiet street in
vancouver on mount olympus avenue. neighbors have been waiting for answers for more than
a week about exactly what happened on their street. many in shock seeing their neighborhood
is very peaceful. we still do not know how these people knew each other. we have asked police
for more details
KMVU (FOX)
Sep 14 • 10:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_107

a group of veterans from around southern oregon are putting a spotlight on the number of
veterans who die each day by suicide. dozens gathered at veterans memorial park in medford
this morning to talk about suicide and its impact on the veteran community. the v-a estimates
22 veterans die by suicide each day... that's more than 8 thousand a year. organizers of today's
event say in the last six months... four veterans in southern Oregon took their life. "stopping
someone from committing suicide even though it may be inconvenient it may be embarrassing,
105

it may be painful at the moment, saving someone's life is worth it." veterans who are struggling
can call the veterans crisis line at 1-800-273-8255. family members can call the same number.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 14 • 11:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_108

reporter: on saturday afternoon, at the veteran’s memorial park in medford, terry haynes,
chairman of noncommissioned officers association local chapter, talk about a program aimed to
touch on july 22 veterans commit suicide every day. according to haynes. >> in the last six
months we've had four resides here that i am aware of from veterans. when you factor in the
22 veterans that is a national figure, four of them from right here in that rogue valley and
relatively short rid of time. >> reporter: is is that stopping someone from committing suicide is
be unimportant. even if it may be uncomfortable, embarrassing or uneasy conversation to
have. he also mentioned from personal experience, that it's something you never want to see
happen. anyone can learn more i contacting the and cla local chapter number 1260. people
heard the reality of what may go unseen to the everyday public amount of income is a prayer it
helps that more veterans and others can be helped for this delay. >> give us the strength to see
them lord. that we would be able to talk to them about it and in your name, the way you
instructed us to, we pray for the strength of god, for the strand of jesus christ, that we would
be able to just go through that wall and to that person and love on them, lord. >> reporter: as
people came together to honor those who lost their lives through streetside, they say it's a very
important issue that people should know about. your connection in medford, sammy shaktah,
news10.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 15 • 7:34 AM

B_SEP_OREG_109

all this week kgw news and media outlets around oregon have been highlighting the need to
break the silence about suicide. kgw has more about the woodworkers message about not
giving up. >> for fine woodworker like john, only the sharpest of tools will work. after a quick
run on the grinder and sanded down, they're just the way he wants them. this piece of wood
wants more like a piece of cheese. john sees a wooden bowl. >> i can take this picture that's in
my mind, this object in my mind and make it a real thing. >> using his fingers as guides and his
hands as eyes, he puts the tip of the chisel to wood and changes its shape. >> while i'm carving
it i feel it change and transform under my hand as i'm feeling it. >> as we watch him carve out
the bowl, try seeing it from his point of view. his world wasn't always this dark. >> on april 10th,
1998 he lost his site after surviving a suicide atemporarily. >> that morning, i just don't know. i
just, i just had enough. i just reached a point where I didn't want to do it anymore. >> his life
spiraled down hit for the next 7-eight years using meth and having run ins with police. >>
everything changes eventually and you can effect that change or you can be effected by that
change. >> after almost hitting bottom a second time he saw the potential. he picked up
woodworking and never looked back. he now reds his message of hope to students of all ages.
>> my message is look forward. >> definitely, in the present moment. look forward to letting
me come. there's so much more these hands have touched. if you want to know what he sees,
106

listen to this scripture and press along. >> you see the shapes and colors and that kind of thing.
i see a version of that all the time. >> kind of like snow on a tv >> kind of like snow on a tv
screen. spiraling out of control saved screen. not as fast. not as fast. by the hands of an artist.
>> i had to lose my site to gain my vision. >> beautiful story.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 14 • 11:10 PM

B_SEP_OREG_110

this is new tonight, an eye-opening moment in a bernie sanders town hall in nevada. one man
that said he's a veteran told the presidential candidate that he was going to kill himself because
of his extremely high medical bills, and this was all caught on camera. >> how are you going to
pay it off? >> i can't, i can't. i'm going to kill myself. >> stop it. you're not going to kill yourself.
>> i can't deal with it. i have huntington's disease. do you know how hard that is? you probably
don't, do you? i can't drive. i can barely take care of myself. >> let's talk later at the end of the
meeting. thank you. >> after the town hall, sanders and his wife spent time talking with the
gentleman but there is no word what they talked about and senator sanders responded to the
encounter afterwards. >> it is painful, but i think it is terribly important that people begin to
understand that they are not the only people in america who cannot afford healthcare. >> he
went on the blame the insurance industry and drug companies. >> if you or someone you know
is struggling with suicidal feelings, help is available. you can call the suicide prevention lifeline
on the number on the screen or live chat at suicidepreventionlifeline.org
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 15 • 6:41 PM

B_SEP_OREG_111

tonight we continue our contribution to breaking the silence. the statewide media partnership
designed to shine a light on oregon's suicide crisis. we spent almost a year talking more about
youth mental health through our kind is better campaign. it's partly our attempt to shatter the
stigma about talking about mental health, but what do you do when you are doing this at
home, when you can't break through to your kids, to have that important conversation. then
what do you do? we work to answer that question. >> reporter: this is chris, cooper and bear.
>> my first thought was billy. and then the second one was teddy. then i thought let's just name
him after what he is, a bear. >> reporter: cooper is 10, clearly rational, and also empathetic. >>
i'm welling up, i'm really proud of my son, like every parent is. >> i'll get you a tissue. >>
reporter: he's got autism and struggles with anger but he's learning to control it. >> the medical
director of the adolescent psychiatric unit at the unity center offers free classes for parents to
teach them about collaborative solving or cps. >> my recommendation is even if you don't think
you need it, go. >> reporter: cps focuses on the die that kids do well when they can. if they
could do getter, they would. it's up to help the parents to see and get more curious what is it
from getting the way of them doing better. >> reporter: have you have to ask yourself what's
the root of this problem. >> it's not the behavior that's the problem to be solved. it's the
challenges that are happening before the behavior occurs. >> reporter: then when you've
figured it out, just wait. >> the last thing you want to do is talk to somebody in a crisis moment.
that's not the time to be talking to a kid. it's actually when they're at their left. >> reporter:
107

when it's calmer you can work with your kid to problem solve. >> that whole closet is filled with
legos. but big crowds, not so much. >> we started this thing called three squeeze. >> reporter:
using cps the two crafted a solution to help cooper community. >> he grabbed my hand and
squeezed three times letting me know he's struggling. >> reporter: cps encourages parents to
step back and give kids a say in a situation they may have otherwise wanted to stay silent. >>
we often try toia punishment rewards to try and change behavior. >> reporter: it's a newer
strategy, even to chris cooper and bear. >> he's helped me get through a lot. >> reporter: but
when they work together, these three can thrive. if you're interested in taking the free class at
unity center, it's every sunday and it's open to anyone. you can check out our website at
katu.com for more information about the class. chris says that he even uses cps while at work
to problem solve with his colleagues. he also thinks parents of kids with anxiety or depression
could really benefit from the technique. to see all the ones that we have put together for
breaking the silence as well as stories from other media outlets you can go to breaking the
silenceor.com.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 15 • 7:31 AM

B_SEP_OREG_112

reporter: dan, good morning. this video gives us that first person view you saw there of a
massive shootout. baltimore police say this is the best depiction of what happened as their
officers converged on this lone suspect and well over 100 rounds were fired. this morning,
shocking police body camera footage just released in baltimore capturing a firefight so intense,
it drowns out the sounds of the sirens. more than a dozen officers unleashing this hail of bullets
towards a suspect on the run. that nonstop gunfire lasting more than 30 seconds with at least
154 rounds fired and the suspect killed. police identifying him as 30-year-old tyrone banks who
they say assaulted multiple officers earlier that week in separate instances. this fatal incident
beginning outside a convenience store last month. >> watch out. he's got a gun, gun, gun. gun,
gun, gun. >> reporter: escalating into a pursuit through a residential area. >> there he is. there
he is. okay. >> reporter: infrared aerial images from the police chopper showing the last
moments of the chase. >> he hit a tree. >> reporter: and appearing to show banks pointing his
weapon toward the officers, but investigators still can't say whether banks ever fired, and with
an officer and a bystander both getting hit in that barrage of bullets, a comprehensive
investigation is under way. >> we have to be accountable for where every one of our rounds
ends up. >> when you're in a firefight you're just trying to survive but you're going with
whatever training you have and basically that training will tell you to take cover, but still keep
the perpetrator in your view. >> reporter: the 13 officers who fired their weapons placed on
routine administrative leave. >> i have to stand by decisions that were made and then we can
assess them and take corrective action if necessary. >> reporter: so baltimore's police
commissioner says based on what a relative of banks told them it's possible this was a case of
suicide by cop but there's still a lot more investigating to be done here, particularly with all the
ballistics of those 154 shots fired. whit. >> an incredible video there as well. trevor ault for us in
washington, thanks so much.

108

KREM (CBS)
Sep 15 • 6:29 PM

B_SEP_WASH_72

washington governor jay inslee says he wants more oversight of private psychiatric hospitals
around the state. he wrote about it in a letter to the state's health department secretary. inslee
released the letter shortly after the seattle times published an investigation it revealed. three
hundred and fifty incidents where patients or staff were assaulted suffered injury or attempted
suicide escape or died suddenly the majority of them went unreported. inslee is calling for the
health department to strengthen oversight and make its findings more accessible to the public.
this is not a decision to move forward but it is at least a way to look at some potential
alternatives to replace some of those very very aging buildings. right now laws only require
hospitals to disclose specific types of serious harm to the department of health. they also face
no penalties if they fail to do so. well the debate over affirmative action is no doubt a
contentious one and as a washington nonprofit works to reinstate the policy advocates and
adversaries are arguing over whether it actually serves the goal of curbing discrimination
michael crow with our seattle sister station spoke with people on each side of the debate.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 16 • 8:35 PM

B_SEP_OREG_113

they spend countless hours caring for your pet -- but are veterinarians getting the help they
need? banfield pet hospital is launching a training program-- to help combat mental health
issues within the industry -- which are rising at an alarming rate. as part of our "better
together" initiative--- fox 12's sarah hurwitz has a look at the program. pkg at 091619ytgthe
number of veterinarians who've considered suicide is staggering.banfield pet hospital says
according to a center for disease control study -- that number is one in six.in light of this -banfield wants to face this problem head on by giving veterinarians the tools to recognize when
someone might be struggling. nats: every day -- they bring compassion and love for our furry
friends. nats: sot((pets make people better. and so pets make the world better and that's why
we do it.)) they work tirelessly to help your pets -- from their early years -- to tough end of life
decisions. The responsibilities weigh heavily on veterinarians. for molly mcallister -- the chief
medical officer at banfield pet hospital -- some of those difficult times still linger, like back in
2007 when a young dog named kelsey had acute kidney failure. they did everything they could
to save her -- but ultimately had to put her down. sot((i think what's so hard is watching not just
the pet but the people and feeling the responsibility for their emotions. and after we put kelsey
to sleep her family gave us one of her leashes.)) sot ((to this day i still have a piece of her leash
wrapped around my stethoscope.)) mcallister says the veterinarian community is struggling.
sot((molly mcallister/chief medical officer, banfield pet hospital: most have learned some
degree of ability to separate from the situation but we know that compassion fatigue is a huge
issue for our profession.)) take gfx: according to a center for disease control report -- female
veterinarians are 3.5 times more likely to commit suicide than the general population. their
male counterparts -- 2.1 times more likely. take 2nd gfx: to combat this -- banfield is launching a
new training called ask -- which stands for assess support-- know.giving the veterinarian
community the tools to look out for trigger signs and to get people help, as well as the
109

knowledge to find the right resources. mcallister says she wants the veterinarian community to
know it's ok to talk about mental health issues. sot((you're not alone and there are people and
places where you can get help and get through this because your passion to the profession is so
valuable, we can't lose one more veterinarian.)) the ask program is an online training that
banfield will have all its employees go through before january 20-20. it's also offering the
training as a free resource to other veterinary clinics and colleges. live in studio, sarah hurwitz
fox 12 oregon. fox 12's "better together" initiative focuses on ways that our community
promotes mental wellness. if you, or someone you know, needs help -- there are people out
there who are ready to listen. for more information about this story and resources -- head to
our website at kptv dot-com slash "better together."
KREM (CBS)
Sep 16 • 8:31 AM

B_SEP_WASH_73

suicides are on the rise. so the fcc is proposing a three-digit hotline number for people to call if
they're feeling suicidal or if they're experiencing a mental health crisis. the number is 988, and
it would be the new national number. and it would replace the current ten-digit number for the
national suicide prevention line which i think is actually excellent. >> you know something
about there topic, unfortunately. >> i do. and many -- and many of my friends, there are so
many people being touched by this right now. and it's just -- i think that this is an excellent idea.
you're overwhelmed. whether you -- i was the first celebrity to talk about severe postpartum
depression. >> yeah. >> and you know, there's all kind of reasons. but the last thing you can do
is get help. >> yeah. because you had it in your family, i thought this was important. >> right.
with my son -- >> your son. >> the current number is 1-800-273-talk. that gets two million calls
a year already. >> yeah. i think it's good. it's like 411, information. 911, help. this is a great -- a
great idea. >> we've got to -- >> make it simple. >> i love that. >> i do, too. >> it's a little bit
uncomfortable that there's a division between the physical health and mental health when it's
bodily health. i think something is better than nothing. >> the number is now 988. >> they're
proposing it. >> it would be 988. >> a great idea.
Portland's CW
Sep 16 • 12:30 PM

B_SEP_OREG_114

an ohio teenager has pled not guilty to murder after he was accused of helping his fellow
teenage friend commit suicide by buying him a gun and ammunition. chris spargo has more
from our new york newsroom. >> duncan is being charged with the death of 17-year-olds. not
only did mcelroy buy the gun but he also drove him to the location where he would eventually
shoot himself in the head. now mcelroy and stinker had only met about two weeks before the
teenager died. the money before the suicide there is another attempt by stinger, and the young
boy was saved. mcelroy is currently being held on $50,000 bond and it's still unclear why ace
killed himself.

110

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 16 • 6:34 PM

B_SEP_OREG_115

they spend countless hours caring for our pets but veterinarians need help. >> banfield is
combating a mental issues within the industry. it is rising at an alarming rate it's part of our
better together initiative. >> the number of veterinarians who commit suicide is staggering the
number is one in six. banfield wants to face this problem head on by giving veterinarians the
tools to recognize when someone might be struggling. >> every day they bring compassion and
love for our furry friends. >> pets make people better and so pets make the world better. that's
why we do it. >> they worked tirelessly to help pets from the early years to the top and end-oflife decisions. the responsibilities weigh heavy on veterinarians. some difficult times still linger
like in 2007 when a young dog named kelsey had a kidney failure. they did everything they
could to save her but ultimately had to put her down. >> what is hard is watching not just the
pet but the people and feeling the responsibility for their emotions and after we put the pet to
sleep her family gave us one of her leashes. to this day i still have a piece of her leash wrapped
around my stethoscope. >> the veterinarian community is struggling. >> most have learned to
some degree of ability to separate from the situation but we know the compassion fatigue is a
huge issue for our profession. >> according to a report female veterinarians are 3.5 times more
likely to commit suicide than the general population. there male counterparts are 2.1 times
likely. they want to give veterinarian community need the tools to look up or trigger signs and
to get people help as well as the knowledge to find the right resources. mcallister's once the
veterinarian community to know it's okay to talk about mental health issues. >> you are not
alone and there are people in places where you can get help and get through this for the
profession is valuable. we cannot lose one more veterinarian. >> the program is an online
training that banfield will have employees go through before january 2020 and offering this as a
free resource to other veterinarian clinics and colleges. >>> are better together initiative
focuses on with the community promotes mental wellness. if you or someone you know needs
help there are people out there ready to listen. for more information about this story and
resources head to our website kp tv .com/better together.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 16 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_74

washington gov. jay inslee says he wants more oversight of private psychiatric hospitals in the
state. inslee made the comments in a letter to health department secretary john wiesman this
week, following an investigation by the seattle times. during three-year period the hospitals
reported 15 "adverse events," but over the same period the newspaper found 350 incidents in
which patients or staff were assaulted, suffered an injury, attempted suicide, escaped or died
suddenly. the days are getting colder which can only mean that flu season is almost upon us.
the kennewick school district is trying to make it easy for students to get their shots. the district
will be hosting several flu shot clinics at its schools everyday for the next couple of weeks.
ppointments are not necessary and the shots are free with insurance. tomorrow-- there will be
a clinic at sage crest elementary in the morning then one at southridge high in the evening. for
the full schedule-- head over to k-s-d's website. the federal communications commission, or fcc,
111

is looking to change the national suicide prevention hotline phone number. instead of the 10
digit number, they want to change it to 9-8-8.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 16 • 4:46 PM

B_SEP_OREG_116

vets are 2 to 3 times more likely to commit suicide than the general population. stephanie wade
looks into why and signs to pay attention to if someone you know is struggling. [f3]
veterinarians and suicide-pkg "now i might go from an exam room and be working with a puppy
or a kitten to a walking next door and doing euthanasia. and that's a huge mental swing." from
the beginning of her career as a veterinarian. dr. jennifer quammen says suicide is an issue
widely talked about amongst her profession. one in six is what's commonly referred to as one in
six practicing veterinarians that students or even prevention found male vets are two point one
times as with the general population. and this is especially concerning as more than 60 and this
is especially concerning as more than 60 percent of vets are women. "we talk about euthanasia.
we guide people toward it toward it. we physically deliver it and so at one point when you're in
a down place yourself why would you not naturally think, oh if i'm counseling a client that that's
an ok thing that i can see this is a way out as well." things like pricey medical school debt but
getting paid less than half of a typical physician or surgeon and a tendency to isolate
themselves makes veterinary one of the top professions at risk for suicide. if you or someone
you know is at risk for suicide -- you can call the national suicide prevention hot line. that
number is on your screen now -- you can also find it on our website -- kdrv-dot-com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 16 • 5:30 AM

B_SEP_OREG_117

local veterans will chance to change the oregon addresses needs the state of oregon addresses
the behavioral health needs of veterans. >>pictures genevieve ray almost live in northeast
portland right now at genevieve young oregon vets are at the highest risk for suicide yeah.
>>oregon veterans ages 18 through 34 at the highest risk for suicide. we know that are in
struggle with behavioral health especially mental illness. and this right here these are the
results of a recent study that proved organ is not doing enough to help these veterans when an
effort to change that the oregon health authority along with the oregon department of
veterans affairs is launching a statewide tour to solicit feedback from local veterans. and today
the tour will be in portland it also be here tomorrow and wednesday i want you to listen to this
quote from only jay's behavioral health director he says quote oregon veterans have given their
time and talents to serve our nation in times of war or peace and peace i am deeply concerned
about the challenges that veterans reported. accessing behavioral health services the oregon
health authority an organ part of veterans of launched a statewide tour back in august info
gathered from the tour will help the health of the develop a 5 year strategic plan to better
address veterans behavioral health i will detail the exact dates and times of those different
meanings.

112

KEPR (CBS)
Sep 17 • 5:02 PM

B_SEP_WASH_75

it is the 10th leading cause of death in our country. is epidemic a lot of people do not feel
comfortable talking about. we spoke with a local father who lost his son more than four years
ago to suicide. he says talking about it is one of the most important ways to help overcome it.
he now works to honor his son's memory but telling everyone he knows what he thinks will
help save more lives. is his parents need to be able to have a conversation with the kids talking
about the uncomfortable s word.>> in my generation it is not talked about. we really do not
want to talk about the's things. in my children's generation, we're going to have to confront
her. in my grandchildren's generation we will eradicated. >> this wicked therapist who
specializes will be given a free talk to the community to help educate and arm parents
withnowledge. the event is free. it is this thursday. parents and teachers and pastors are
encouraged to come learn more at this event.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 17 • 6:30 AM

B_SEP_OREG_118

turning to our better together initiative. the number of veterinarians who are considering
suicide are staggering. they're giving them the tools to recognize when someone might be
struggling. sara has the story. every day they bring compassion and love for our fury friends.
pets make people better. and so bets make the world better. that's why we do it. >> should
they work tirelessly to help your pets from the earl he years to tough end of life decisions and
the responsibilities weigh heavily on veterinarians. for molly mcallister some of the difficult
times still linger like when a young dog had acute kidney failure. they did everything they could
to save her but had to put her down. i think >> what's so hard is watch not just the pet but the
people and feeling the responsibility for their emotions, and after we put kelsey to sleep, her
family gave us one of her leashes. to this day i still have a piece of her leash wrapped around
the stethoscope. >> the most have learned some degree of ability to separate from the
situation. but we know that compassion fatigue is a huge issue for our profession. >> according
it a cdc report, female veterinarians are 3.5 times more likely to commit suicide than the
general population. their male counterparts 2.1 times more likely and to combat this ban field
is lawn of anding a new training called ase which is assess, support. it's okay to talk about
mental health issues. >> you're not alone and there are people and places where you can get
help and get through this, because your passion to the profession is still valuable we can't lose
one more veterinarian. >> "good day oregon". >> fox 12's bet together initiative focuses on
ways we can promote mental illness. for more information about this story and for resources
we have a dedicated section on the website kptv.com/bettertogether

113

KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 17 • 9:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_76

we all know about not one but now the fcc recommends a three digit number for the national
suicide prevention line. amity addressee joining us here to explain and this sounds like a good
idea. >>> and just like number one, the three digit hotline will get immediate help for people
who are having thoughts of suicide or any other crisis involving mental health. that number
would be 988 and experts believe it's ease-of- use could help save lives. so this could be
particularly important in washington state because according to crisis text line which is a free
24 hour tech support washington is ranked in the top 24 crises relating to anxiety or stress so it
shows the majority of texts involve relationships between 5% are for people contemplating
suicide. the fcc's report was mandated by the national suicide hotline improvement act of 2018
and last year they said we have a problem and we need to get care for americans very very
quickly. crisis care is needed. from this, this is where we want to go and this is where we are
right now. this 10 digit number 273 -- talk. how many of us know the number by heart? the fcc
thinks the 988 number will be a lot easier and look neat is dire. in 2018 2.2 million calls were
made to the lifeline and 100,000 online chats. right now the fcc is rulemaking which means they
are figuring out how to implement the system as soon as possible so we will continue to follow
this and you can continue to follow us at king5.com. >>> teens at seattle's roosevelt high school
trying to erase the stigma surrounding mental illness. they have created a suicide prevention
team to help save lives. the team is considered an essential part to get students to open up
about their inner struggles. >>> the last two students that we lost a suicide two years ago. one
year right after the other in i think hawe have definitely provided more resources. >> in the
group to talk about how to spot suicide warnings and practice talking about it. together they
wear t-shirts and pass out buttons that say crush the stigma.
Fox 12 Plus
Sep 16 • 9:26 PM

B_SEP_OREG_119

the number of veterinarians who've considered suicide is staggering.banfield pet hospital says
according to a center for disease control study -- that number is one in six.in light of this -banfield wants to face this problem head on by giving veterinarians the tools to recognize when
someone might be struggling. nats: every day -- they bring compassion and love for our furry
friends. nats: sot((pets make people better. and so pets make the world better and that's why
we do it.)) they work tirelessly to help your pets -- from their early years -- to tough end of life
decisions. the responsibilities weigh heavily on veterinarians. for molly mcallister -- the chief
medical officer at banfield pet hospital -- some of those difficult times still linger, like back in
2007 when a young dog named kelsey had acute kidney failure. they did everything they could
to save her -- but ultimately had to put her down. sot((i think what's so hard is watching not just
the pet but the people and feeling the responsibility for their emotions. and after we put kelsey
to sleep her family gave us one of her leashes.)) ááástitchááá sot ((to this day i still have a piece
of her leash wrapped around my stethoscope.)) mcallister says the veterinarian community is
struggling. sot((molly mcallister/chief medical officer, banfield pet hospital: most have learned
some degree of ability to separate from the situation but we know that compassion fatigue is a
114

huge issue for our profession.)) take gfx: according to a center for disease control report -female veterinarians are 3.5 times more likely to commit suicide than the general population.
their male counterparts -- 2.1 times more likely. take 2nd gfx: to combat this -- banfield is
launching a new training called ask -- which stands for assess support-- know.giving the
veterinarian community the tools to look out for trigger signs and to get people help, as well as
the knowledge to find the right resources. mcallister says she wants the veterinarian
community to know it's ok to talk about mental health issues. sot((you're not alone and there
are people and places where you can get help and get through this because your passion to the
profession is so valuable, we can't lose one more veterinarian.)) the ask program is an online
training that banfield will have all its employees go through before january 20-20. it's also
offering the training as a free resource to other veterinary clinics and colleges. live in studio,
sarah hurwitz fox 12 oregon. fox 12's "better together" initiative focuses on ways that our
community promotes mental wellness. if you, or someone you know, needs help -- there are
people out there who are ready to listen. for more information about this story and resources -head to our website at kptv dot-com slash "better together.
AM 860
Sep 17 • 8:45 AM

B_SEP_OREG_120

you never know unless you laughs and nowhere is that more true then those who struggle with
depression and attempted suicide new effort in Clackamas County helps to start the
conversation with a simple question joining us live Susie anderson program manager for the
Clackamas County arts alliance Suzy thanks so much for joining us on first addition thanks for
having me good morning good morning tell us about this new effort what makes it unique Yeah
well all the time it started about two years ago we all moved people lookok maternal behavior
ohio huh this idea to help bring down its stake in her suicide and to get people comfortable
talking about it and that's not all.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 17 • 6:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_77

kiro7 reported extensively on the investigation into dr. thomas clark. he's accused of taking
shortcuts on death investigations. we talked to the dad of a teen who died after falling off the
puyallup bridge. police called it an laccident but dr. clark ruled it a suicide. the father fought to
get his son's official cause of death changes and reacted to it last night. >> i don't think it came
soon enough and it should have been something else beside him retiring. >> he should be fired
in >> yeah, i do. >> dr. clark is the subject of a whistle blower complaint, three filed with the
comnn and state department of health. dr. clark's retirement will not impact that investigation.
KONG-SEA
Sep 17 • 7:48 AM

B_SEP_WASH_78

the federal communications commission is recommending a three digit number be assigned to
a national suicide prevention line. hopefully it will help a lot of people. >> reporter: think of it
115

like a 911, but it is a three digit hotline that would definitely medially get help to people to
having a mental health crisis. the number would be 988. experts believe it is easy to
use and could save lives, which is particularly important here in washington state. now
according to crisis text line, which is a free, 24/7 crisis text support service, washington is
ranked in the top 20. that's actually supposed to be a 17. number 17 is where we are at. crisis
transfer washington showed the majority of texts sent to the crisis text line revolver
relationships, and 25% involved people contemplating suicide, so that is a big concern. the sec,
they had this report. is mandated in 2018 he said we have a problem getting americans care
quickly, and this is what they came up with, so there is a national suicide prevention lifeline, but
it's a 10 digit number, 273-talk. it's great, but how many of us know the number by heart? the
fcc think 988 is easy to remember. in 2018, trained lifeline callersecililli calls and 100,000 online
chats. they are trying to figure how to implement this new system as soon as possible, so of
course we'll continue to follow this, and you can follow us on king5.com. back to you.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 17 • 5:33 PM

B_SEP_WASH_79

the father of a teenager who died after falling off a bridge so that the medical examiner's
retirement cannot come soon enough. we reported extensively on the investigation into dr.
thomas clark is accused of taking shortcuts. jordan fell off the bridge in 2017. police called it an
accident, but dr. clark ruled a suicide. his family fought to get that cause of death changed. but i
don't think it came soon enough, it it should've been something else other than him retiring. i
think he should've been fired. >> dr. clark is the subject of a whistlebt. and an investigation by
the state department of health. his retirement will not impact that investigation. kiro 7 learned
that he will stay on the job until the end of 2020.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 17 • 6:02 PM

B_SEP_WASH_80

firefighting is the second most stressed job behind the military and in front of of pilot. are often
thought of his heroes , but they often pay a mental and emotional pricef dangerous situations
they experienced. factors include shiftwork, sleep deprivation, and an adequate training. there
can be technical problems, not having the proper tools, experts say it's the traumatic events
that can have a much larger toll -like the loss of the child. 2014 report found that a fire
department is three times more likely to experience suicide in a given year than a line of duty
death. those on-duty deaths, 45% are due to cardiovascular events. we posted all of joanna's
interview on our website.

116

KDRV (ABC)
Sep 18 • 4:12 PM

B_SEP_OREG_121

a body camera video shows officers pulling up a man who tried to jump off the side of a bridge.
now -- those officers are speaking out about their heroic actions. blake stevens has the story.
video captured by a deputy's body camera ... showing the moment a young man got a second
chance at life. knox county deputy brian rehg and k-p-d lieutenant chris mccarter both say they
were at the right place at the right time. dept. brian rehg/knox county: "after 13 years of
service and seeing all kinds of things, to actually save somebody like that, yeah, it feels good."
rehg saying he's used to being called out after something like this happens... not a situation
where he actually saves someone. it highlights the wide-scope of an officer's job. lt. chris
mccarter/knoxville police: "you have to prepare for everything because you really don't know
when -- people think that we do this, this, this and this. but in reality, anything can happen and
you have to be prepared for anything." the two... from different agencies... working with the
same goal... saving a young man's life... dept. brian rehg/knox county: "every time we've ever
come in contact with kpd it's just as if it's another member of my shift and it's a complete
separate entity so we work hand in hand if need be." both men recognized for their work... like
here at k-p-d's april employee of the month ceremony... and on social media... lt. chris
mccarter/knoxville police: "anybody who would have been there when i was there, i would
liked to think that they would have done exactly what i did. any that's just how things worked
out." knox county sheriff tom spangler says this is part of the job... and it requires common
sense and caring... sheriff tom spangler/knox county sheriff's office: "it's not just how people
think that we're out here writing tickets and putting people in jail. that's a perfect example of
putting someone else before you, and what can you say to that but thank you?" lieutenant
mccarter says if you notice signs someone is in crisis and may be at risk for suicide -- get them
help as soon as possible. the national suicide hotline number is on your screen right now -- you
can also find it on our website kdrv-dot-com.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 19 • 6:04 PM

B_SEP_OREG_122

reporter: oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students in grades 6
through 12 to take a mental health wellness check once every school year. but roger, a suicide
prevention coordinator says it doesn't just affect young people. he says oregon has a strong
health care system with many organizations. >>> meaning that more people are able to access
medicaid and medicare. and therefore, more folks oftentimes get diagnosed for the problems
that may go unseen in other areas with less access to care. >> reporter: he says that's one of
the reasons why mental illness is recognized more often than not in oregon. some people think
another is because the lack of sunlight and heavy amounts of rain. >> rain and cloud cover we
have. exposure to sunlight can influence a person's mental health. however, it's simply one
factor among many. >> whatever the reason is, the chance of lowering mental illness and
suicide comes with connection and social activity. reaching out and talking about our problems
with a specialist or even a friend can speak volumes to finding a solution. even when we think a
solution is a far cry from help. he says the mind your mind conference is later this month at the
117

valley river inn. he says that's one of the major events for anyone to find help and talk with
many professionals in the community. >> we can do it on our own rather than necessarily row
lying on others or looking to others for the answers. at the end of the day, we are the answer.
>> reporting in eugene, angelina dickson. >>> the mind your mind conference is september
25th through the 27th. from 9:00 to 4:00. >>> well, a local group has come up with a new way
to reach young people at risk of suicide. they worked with a video game streaming service to
help communicate and save lives. cassandra gutierrez explains. >> last year at this time, it was
my 21st birthday and they were trying to get me out of my bed. that's the paramedics. trying to
get me into the hospital. >> like many youth, alley was suffering from bipolar depression. after
a failed suicide attempt, she found youth era. they aim to lower suicide rates in the country by
empowering youth. they've recently partnered with an online game streaming site, twitch.
allowing professionals to communicate with young people and serve as a virtual support
system. >> trying to make sure there's resources readily available for youth. that's a super
important piece. for them to have things that are are responsive to their culture. >> according
to the web page, influencer marketing hub, twitch has 15 million daily active users, they feel
like they've definitely saved lives by being on twitch and are are all ready having a positive
impact. >> through just having that chat community, you see people support one another. you
see people share goals with each other. friendships are built. bonds are built. communities are
built. and it's all online. >> youth era hopes to serve as an example for local schools and parents
to better understand what media platforms youth are using. >> by understanding kids better,
you know how to actually interact with kids. you know how to help them go through whatever
challenges they are. you know what challenges they are going through. >> for the future of the
nonprofit. >> we see ourselves being part of the gaming community. participating with twitch.
at twitch con. and really just being able to have that platform to talk about youth
empowerment. mental health. suicidal ideation. >> using technology and virtual platforms to
save lives.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 19 • 8:11 AM

B_SEP_WASH_81

reporter: a foundation more important than ever as more and more kids are struggling rates of
depression and anxiety are way up, affecting more than 6 million children between 3 and 17
years old and suicide is now the second leading cause of death among 15 to 19 year-olds. >>
feeling nervous about lunch because you're not sure who you will sit with. classroom students
are >> reporter: back in the practicing real life scenarios what is mental health? >> mental
health is really not more about your physical health, but your mind, what you're thinking about.
>> reporter: 10-year-olds, victoria, noah and daniel know a lot about stress and they're not
afraid to talk about it. do you think that mental health is just as important as all your other kind
of health, like your physical health? >> yeah. >> reporter: what's your top tip for defeating
stress >> to relax. >> to exercise. >> to go for a walk. >> to use a stress ball. >> reporter: ms.
mccabe says the lessons are making a difference. >> often it's like the elephant in the room. it's
something that they feel like, oh, it's only me letting them know that they're not alone, and it is
something that unfortunately exists. it's so important. >> reporter: it was interesting, too, all
your fifth graders raised their hand they have stress in their lives. >> i expected a couple of
118

them to raise their hand. they were all very comfortable sing, yeah, i'm stressed. i really hate to
see that they're stressed but i'm also really glad to see they can admit that and it's okay and
they're not ashamed. >> reporter: removing the stigma of mental health and education that will
last a lifetime. >> life is quick. >> life is quick. >> and you need to slow down say it slow down.
>> i really want to be in her fifth grade class. ms. mccabe now recognizes the signs herself
because she's had teacher training about mental health issues. one other point the
superintendent made nationwide there aren't enough mental health specialists in school right
now, they don't have enough school psychologists so this kind of training for the teachers really
can make a difference. >> you and your team literally called every state, right? >> yeah, our
producer literally called every state if you want to know how your state is doing we put this
interactive map up on today.com, you can look up your state and see what they're doing or
what they're not doing in terms of mental health education. >> my son just started
kindergarten a few weeks ago and they've already started started instruction on mindfulness at
5. >> it's instruction on mindfulness at 5. >> it's a huge trend across all schools. the social,
emotional learning we were talking about. >> fascinating thank you, kate.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 19 • 6:42 PM

B_SEP_OREG_123

some call it a medical breakthrough for people with ptsd. others may look at it as unproven
therapy. deb knapp talked to one patient who claims the relatively new therapy on the west
coast called accelerated resolution therapy is changing her life. >> people will report some kind
of tension or tightness. >> brit white has lived with a form of ptsd most of her life. >> it didn't
get really symptomatic until the last year. >> she suffered sleepless nights, panic attacks and
anxiety and tried every type of therapy. nothing helped. >> tell me what sensations do you
notice? >> i found david and within three sessions it was all wiped out. >> he's a
psychotherapist who specializes in accelerated resolution therapy. >> the therapy works with
the fear memory and seems to essentially erase the fear memory. so it's not like eternal
sunshine of the spotless mind but pretty close. >> what makes this therapy different is that it
includes a physical element. >> it's very important to understand that trauma is an acquired
condition. it's like an allergy in which you have a very specific response to a very specific trigger
and that response of course is very overwhelming. this therapy works with the body, which is
actually a new concept for me. >> here's how it works. the patient moves their eyes back and
forth following the therapist's hand as the therapist waves it back and forth. the therapist then
gives specific direction. >> all right, and then take a breath. >> within a few minutes i was
feeling tension, i was feeling grief, it comes up really quickly. then he helped me to sit with the
emotions. cry or shake or whatever like get the emotions out. >> we're not doing an arc. >>
that's supposed reprogram the way your brain stores bad memories. >> the result is that i can
say that i don't have ptsd any more. it doesn't feel like it. i November thought that was a thing.
>> he was the first master practitioner in the northwest and says he's seen tremendous results.
>> i have treated 300 people in two and a half yt of them have been very happy and like what
they have experienced through the therapy. it's really exciting to be able to make that kind of a
change in people that quickly. do you need more time? >> no. >> that was deb knapp reporting.
the therapy was developed in 2007. it's also supposed help with depression and other issues.
119

many claim it has a 60% success rate. >> there's other help for people with ptsd. you can call
the national lifeline or text home. for more information go to suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 19 • 5:13 PM

B_SEP_OREG_124

oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students in grades six through 12 to
make a mental health wellness check once every school year. the national alliance on mental
illness reports oregon ranks the highest in the country with the prevalence of mental illness. it
does not just affect young people in oregon, roger, a suicide prevention coordinator, says
oregon has a relatively robust healthcare system with many organizations. >> more people are
able to access medicaid and medicare, and more folks often times get diagnosed. for the
problems that may go unseen in other areas, with less access to care. >> he says that is one of
the reasons mental illness is recognized more often than not in oregon. tonight on kval at 6:00,
angelina dixon shares what can help mental illness numbers go down the suicide awareness
month. >>> a public health group provided suicide prevention training in coos county. >>
veterans were identified as a special interest at risk group. >> reporter: numbers show veterans
are twice as likely to die by suicide than civilians. that is according to the department of
veterans affairs, according to the v.a., 20 veterans die every day from suicide. >> the veterans
that are not in care it is like, how do we identify and expedite them to treat it. >> reporter: that
is where a suicide prevention training comes in. >> you are going to make that really
challenging question, are you thinking of killing yourself? after you ask that question you are
going to persuade and validate their experience. validate listening, and persuades to treatment.
that is where the referrer comes in referring them and expediting them to get the help they
need. >> reporter: william, a local v.a. suicide prevention's coordinator , says they have support
groups, resources and similar training. guy pierce says he cames came back from serving in the
army with ptsd. >> me, myself, in a dark place, receiving help, i feel like it is part of my
obligation to hopefully reach out to one of those that may be a fallen comrade. >> reporter: he
works with the v.a. program, helping homeless veterans. reporting in coos county, lauren
mcgrady. >>> a local nonprofit is trying to reduce suicide rates in young people by reaching out
to them on a new platform. they are now partners with twitch, an online game streaming
company that reaches millions on a daily basis. they now have access to virtual chat rooms
where they serve to empower youth, struggling with depression or suicidal thoughts. >> one of
the ways that we remain responsive to use voice and culture is we do not say you are just a kid.
it is going to past. that is language that has to be gone away because those feelings are real.
and so we need to attend to the feelings as they are right now. >> use e.r.a. says the recent
partnership with an online platform is already saving lives.
KONG-SEA
Sep 19 • 7:16 PM

B_SEP_WASH_82

deborah: 20 years ago, phil hartman, who became a household name on saturday night live,
was killed by his wife in a murder-suicide that shocked america. now after all these years,
there's new information that gives insight into what went wrong with a family that seemed to
120

have it all. >> reporter: he was a comic genius. >> let me tell you something. there's going to be
a whole bunch of things we don't tell mrs. clinton. >> reporter: phil hartman earned acclaim on
snl and later became a beloved sitcom star on news radio. the laughter came to a tragic end the
morning of may 28th, 1998, when hartman was shot dead by his wife brynn who also took her
own life. now abc is airing a two-hour special, the last days of phil hartman, in which hartman's
brother-in-law breaks his silence.
KEPR (CBS)
Sep 19 • 6:02 PM

B_SEP_OREG_125

the 10th leading cause of death in our country it is suicide which most do not feel comfortable
talking about. we spoke with a local father lost his son to suicide. he says these conversations
are important and parents need to be able to talk with their kids about the uncomfortable as
word. tonight, a mental health specialist will be given a free talk to the community. this is at the
lds church at 7 pm. parents and teachers and anyone who works with you are encouraged to
attend.
KLSR (FOX)
Sep 20 • 7:02 AM

B_SEP_OREG_126

some oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students in grades six through
12 to take a mental health wellen check every school year. the national alliance on mental
illness states that oregon ranks highest in the country for the prevalence of mental illness.
oregon has a relatively robust health care system involving many organizations. >> meaning
that more people are able to access medicaid and medicare and more folk get diagnosed for
the problems that may go unseen in other areas with less access to care. >> he says that is one
of the reasons why mental illness is recognized more often than not in oregon. ." >>> a local
nonprofit is trying to reduce suicide rates in young people by reaching out to them on a new
platform. they can go to virtual chat rooms to connect with youth. the recent partnership is
already saving lives.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 20 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_127

Kelso police say battalion chief Michael Zain field died of suicide Kellett to personnel consider
his death a line of duty fact saying field those battling a job-related injury caused by
occupational stress deputy chief becky rival and says other agencies are helping the not today I
going about 5000 American he called the year and Had local fire Department that and them
that they don't need to go on that White so Seinfeld was a 20 year veteran of the Cowlitz two
important we Fire and rescue he also spent 5 years as a volunteer the sadness of suicide is
overwhelming for those left behind those new talents to italian chief bites infielder dealing with
that today Caicos my turn to talk to someone who understands that all too well black misfired
division chief Joshua your piece says those in his Department are saddened by the news we are
lifting up our thoughts and prayers are brothers and sisters been affected by this any of the cal
121

staff showed up for work today so they could work through their grief the people that were
close to me that I know that I've committed suicide it is just heart wrenching and you start to
question all interactions you had I won't say it could have prevented this sin sadly often no you
can't change your Kitty says what they can do is talk about it that's when you have to break
through that tough firefighter wall deal with grief he feels for those and kel kelly you're dealing
with that.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 20 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_128

firefighters in cowlitz county are mourning the death of one of their own. battalion chief mike
zainfeld was just 41-years-old. authorities say he died by suicide after struggling with post
traumatic stress disorder related to his job. jennifer: our amy frazier is live outside cowlitz 2 fire
and rescue where zainfeld served the community for 25 years. reporter: that is right. he
dedicated his life to helping others. right now firefighters here are focusing on supporting each
other, and his family. >> he was the guy who would bring levity to any situation. reporter:
firefighters, police, family and friends, gathered together in kelso today for a journey to honor
cowlitz 2 fire and rescue battalion chief mike zainfeld. they would travel to the coroner's office
to escort his body to a local funeral home. >> it is very hard. reporter: chief dave lafave says
zainfeld was struggling with post traumatic stress injuries related to being a longtime firefighter
and medic. zainfeld was off duty, and on medical leave thursday when he died by suicide.
experts say ptsd and depression rates among first responders have been found to be as much
as 5 times higher than the rates for others. >> they are seeing things a lot of people should
never see and they are seeing them over and over again. reporter: we also spoke with the
agency's deputy chief, who helped start an employee assistance program here, as well as
program to debrief after traumatic incidents. >> you see they are struggling with issues or they
took one call particularly hard area talk to them, see how they are feeling about it. reporter: we
also spoke with her doctor today about what can be some of the warning s >> you might notice
they do less and less things, that they are not showing up to events. or maybe they're not
sleeping well. some of the things they say, they might talk about being more hopeless, more
depressed thinking about death. ,reporter: the fire chief also offered this message to fellow first
responders and members of the community. >> the message is, don't be so tough that you
think you can't share what your issues are with somebody. there was always somebody we can
find that you can talk to that will help. reporter: firefighters from around the area are helping to
cover shifts here during this difficult time. reporting live in kelso, amy frazier koin 6 news.
jennifer: it is a tough story and one that should be talked about. it is a good reminder to ask
how others are doing. reach out to your loved ones. you can also use this number call lines for
life at , 800-273-8255. you can also text 273-talk to 839863 for help. we have all this
information on koin.com

122

KVAL (CBS)
Sep 20 • 5:32 AM

B_SEP_OREG_129

some oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students in grades 6 through 12
to get a mental health wellness check every school year. the national alliance on mental illness
reports oregon ranks the highest in the country for the prevalence of mental illness. but it
doesn't only affect young people in oregon. roger brubaker, a suicide prevention coordinator,
says oregon has a relatively robust healthcare system involving many organizations. (roger
brubaker/lane public health/12 sec: meaning, more people are able to access medicaid and
medicare.so therefore, more folks get diagnosed for the problems that may go unseen in other
areas with less access to care.) he says that's one of the reasons why mental illness is
recognized more often than not in oregon. and a local non profit is trying to reduce suicide
rates in young people... by reaching out to them on a new platform. youth era is now partners
with twitch, an online game streaming platform that reaches millions on a daily basis. youth era
now has access to virtual chat rooms, where they serve to empower youth struggling with
depression or suicidal thoughts.
KEPR (CBS)
Sep 20 • 6:37 AM

B_SEP_WASH_83

dominant suicide is the eighth leading cause of death in washington state. it's the second
leading cause of death in our nation. suicide can be hard to talk about, mental health experts
say, we need to get comfortable with the uncomfortable. how do you avoid an awkward
conversation about suicide? they say, you do not. we need to get comfortable, talking about
this subject with the ones we love especially parents and kids, even if they do not think their
child is at risk. it's an important discussion to have. >> we need to be talking about it. it's not a
forbidden subject. the most important thing for people to know, connection needs to be there.
we need to make sure we are connecting with people around us. the connection needs to be
there. we need to be connecting. we need to make sure people are not going it alone. >> there
are not enough mental health services in our area. there is a lack of providers for children in the
tri-cities.
KEPR (CBS)
Sep 20 • 5:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_84

suicide is the á8thá leading cause of death in washington state and the 2nd leading cause of
death in our region for those ages 15-34. it was the focus of a mental health presentation in
west richland. while suicide can be hard to talk about, mental health experts say we need to get
comfortable with the uncomfortable.so how do you avoid an awkward conversation about
suicide? you don't... mental health experts say we need to get comfortable talking about this
subject with our loved ones. especially for parents and their kids, even if they don't think their
child is at risk, its an important discussion to have." it's one of those things that we need to be
talking about and make sure that it's not a forbidden subject that's not discussed. the most
important thing for people to know is that connection needs to be there, we need to make sure
123

that we're connecting with people around us whether they are struggling with a mental illness
or not,connection needs to be there so we are talking with people, connecting, and making sure
people don't feel alone. " ferguson says there aren't enough mental health services in our area- and there's especially a lack of providers for children.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 20 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_85

today is prisoner of war and missing in action the walla walla veterans hospital held a ceremony
along with the red cross. similar events were held across the u-s including a national ceremony
at the pentagon. walla walla community members were invited for lunch and to hear speakers
tell their stories about family members that had been lost to war. but overall - it was a day to
thank those who sacrificed everything for america. ("ray crawford, walla walla va associate
director of operations: today statistics show that there are approximately 81,000 service
members that remain missing from world war i to present worldwide. so what we want to do
today is take a moment out, we'd like to pause, remember all of those who couldn't be here
with us and remember our brothers and sisters in arms. thank you to anyone who has given to
this country and thank you for remembering. we will never forget.") a unique part of
recognition day is a remembrance table. the table symbolizes that those missing or lost
americans are still in our presence. it will stay up at the walla walla v-a if you would like to see it
and pay tribute. the walla walla v-a is also reaching out during suicide prevention month. the
campaign - hashtag be there - is specifically geared toward veterans and service members. v-a
officials have been traveling through out eastern washington to offer more assistance to
veterans that may need help with mental health. ("celena veverka, suicide prevention
coordinator walla walla va: we have been focusing on gun locks and gun safety. veterans far
way prefer guns as their method of suicide so we want to make sure that anyone that has
firearms in their homes has the ability to secure them properly if they need to.") the veteran's
hospital has programs for veterans, service members, and their families as well. the veteran's
crisis hotline is at the bottom of your screen... or you can visit veterns crisis line - dot-net for
help.
KMTR (NBC)
Sep 20 • 6:42 AM

B_SEP_OREG_130

a eugene that you know- profit has come up with a new way to reach young people at risk for
suicide. they are partnering with twitch, as nbc 16 reports, a local nonprofit wants to reach out
to prevent suicide online in streaming platform. >> last year at this time, they were trying to get
me out of my bed, the paramedics, trying to get me to the hospital. >> reporter: like many
youths, allie merrill was considering suicide, recently, an online game streaming site, twitch, will
allow professionals to communicate with young people and serve as a virtual support system.
>> the resources are readily available for youth because that's super important. for them to
have responses to their culture. >> reporter: according to the website influencer marketing
hub, twitch has 15 million daily active users, and they feel like they have saved lives by being on
twitch and they are having a positive impact. >> in three years we are seeing people support
124

one another and set goals with each regular, and friendships are built, and bonds are built, and
it's all online. >> reporter: they hope to serve as an example for local schools and parents to
better understand what media platforms they are using. >> to understand better how to
interact with kids and know how to go through the challenges they are. you know what
challenges they are going through. >> reporter: for the future of the non-profit? >> you are part
of a gaming community and participating with twitch, and just being able to have the platform
to talk about youth empowerment, mental health, suicidal isolation. >> reporter: using
technology and virtual platforms to save lives. >> also, some exciting news. a grant for a
streaming session with a doctor chatting with youth on twitch in october. you can check out the
non- profit with several locations in oregon and across the country or check out their website.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 20 • 4:10 PM

B_SEP_OREG_131

tomorrow is the out of the darkness southern oregon walk. this walk is meant to raise
awareness for suicide prevention. the american foundation for suicide prevention is trying to
raise money for research and education for suicide prevention. the walk will be at the commons
park in downtown medford. check in and registration time starts at 10-30... and the walk starts
at noon. and if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts ... you can contact
the national suicide prevention hot line. that number is on your screen. you can also text -connect -- to 741-741.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 20 • 5:32 AM

B_SEP_OREG_132

some oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students in grades 6 through 12
to get a mental health wellness check every school year. the national alliance on mental illness
reports oregon ranks the highest in the country for the prevalence of mental illness. but it
doesn't only affect young people in oregon. roger brubaker, a suicide prevention coordinator,
says oregon has a relatively robust healthcare system involving many organizations. (roger
brubaker/lane public health/12 sec: meaning, more people are able to access medicaid and
medicare.so therefore, more folks get diagnosed for the problems that may go unseen in other
areas with less access to care.) he says that's one of the reasons why mental illness is
recognized more often than not in oregon. and a local nonprofit is trying to reduce suicide rates
in young people... by reaching out to them on a new platform. youth era is now partners with
twitch, an online game streaming platform that reaches millions on a daily basis. youth era now
has access to virtual chat rooms, where they serve to empower youth struggling with
depression or suicidal thoughts. youth era says their recent partnership is already saving lives.

125

KMTR (NBC)
Sep 19 • 11:14 PM

B_SEP_OREG_133

oregon lawmakers are proposing a bill that would require students grade 6 through 12 to take a
mental health wellness check once every school year. the national alliance on mental illness
reports oregon rates the highest in the country for the prevalence of mental illness. but it does
not just affect young people in oregon, roger brubaker, a suicide prevention coordinator says
oregon has a will actively robust healthcare system with many organizations. >> being that
more people are able to access medicaid and medicare, and therefore, more of the folks often
times get diagnosed for the problems that may go unseen in other areas with less access to
care. >> he said that is one of the reason why mental illness is recognized more often than not
in oregon. >>> a public health group provided suicide prevention training in coos county.
veterans were identified as a special interest at rescue group. lauren mcgrady has more. >>
reporter: the numbers show veterans are twice as likely to die by suicide than civilians. that is
according to the department of veterans affairs. according to the va, 20 veterans die every day
from suicide. >> veterans that are not in care it's like how do we identify them and expedite
them to treatment. >> reporter: that is way suicide prevention training hosted by coos county
health and wellness comes and pick >> you will make that really -- question, are you about
killing yourself? then you will persuade and validate their experience. validate, listening,
persuade to treatment and that is where the referrer comes in. referring and expediting to get
the help they need. >> reporter: william lawson, a local bh suicide prevention coordinator said
that they have support groups, resources, and a similar internal training. pierce says he came
back from serving in the army in afghanistan in 2009 with ptsd. >> in the military, one of the
things you learn is never leave a fallen comrade. so myself being in a dark place at one time, i
feel like it is part of my obligation in life to hopefully reach out to one of those that may be a
fallen comrade. >> reporter: he works with the va program, helping homeless veterans to get
housing. say the goal is to spread awareness of the issue and education on resources and
treatment. reporting in coos county, i am lauren mcgrady. >>> nug nonprofit has come up with
a new way to reach young people at risk for suicide. youth era has partnered with twitch, an
online degree game streaming trap platform that reaches millions of people on a daily basis.
the nonprofit has access to virtual chat rooms where they serve to empower youth struggling
with depression or suicidal thoughts. >> one of the ways we remain
responsive to youth and youth culture is we don't say you are just a kid, it is going to pass. that
is language that has to be gone away with. because those feelings are real. so we need to
attend to the feelings as they are right now. >> they are raising partnership with an online
platform to save lives.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 20 • 6:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_134

tomorrow is the out of the darkness southern oregon walk. this walk is meant to raise
awareness for suicide prevention. the american foundation for suicide prevention is trying to
raise money for things like research and education for suicide prevention. the walk will be at
the commons park in downtown medford. check in and registration time starts at 10-30... and
126

the walk starts at noon. the group has a goal of raising 25-thousand dollars. so far they've
raised just more than 20-thousand [f4]out of the darkness-wipefs and if you or anyone you
know is having suicidal thoughts... you can contact the national suicide prevention hot line right
here on your screen. you can also send a text to the text line.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 20 • 12:11 PM

B_SEP_OREG_135

jenny: firefighters in cowlitz county are mourning the death of their battalion chief. battalion
chief mike zainfield died by suicide yesterday, officials say he was on medical leave, battling a
job-related injury caused by stress. zainfield had been with the cowlitz 2 fire and rescue for 20
years. he leaves behind a wife and two teenage boys. the fire chief says the firefighters will be
supporting his family through the loss. a student at sandy high school has been arrested,
accused of making threats against the school on social media. police say the 16-year-old posted
on the app tik tok, threatening a shooting at sandy high school. someone in ohio noticed it, and
called police, who contacted police in sandy. the ohio police say they traced the threat to an i.p.
address registered to the clackamas education service district. the name of the teen arrested
has not been released. police say the shooting threat was not credible.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 20 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_136

just over two hours ago a somber line of vehicles brought back home from the coroner's office
the body of a cowlitz county firefighter. >> bob heye live at cowlitz 2 fire and rescue
headquarters mourning the loss of mike zanefeld. something they say is all too common among
first responders. >> the the chief says the battalion chief was always first to volunteer, give it
his all. in 20 years he was put on leave last spring because of posttraumatic stress disorder. he
died by suicide. cowlitz 2 battalion chief mike seanfeld was married with two boys. he was
dedicated to helping others. that's why he voluntary here's in 2014 to help recover victims from
the landslide in washington. chief dave says pulling bodies appeared parts of bodies from that
debris left him traumatized and has him stressing one important message. >> the message is
that don't be so tough that you think you can't share what your issues are with somebody.
there is always somebody that we can find that you can talk to that will help. >> the chief says
first responders are coping with ptsd issues similar to people in the military although the
trauma is caused by coping with tragedy firsthand instead of injuries suffered on the fire
officials say they hope to hold a memorial funeral service sometime likely in early october. bob
heye, katu news. >> thank you. experts say most mental health crises are career an will pass but
there are always people willing to talk you through it. you can call the national lifeline any time.
or text home to 741741. you can get more information at suicidepreventionlifeline.com

127

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Sep 20 • 4:57 PM

B_SEP_OREG_137

one woman convicted will leave jail early after her parole was denied. Michelle carter earned
good time and her release will be moved up to march instead of may. in 2014 she was texting
her boyfriend at the time encouraging him to kill himself even when he had doubts. he then
died by suicide. in 2017 she was convicted of involuntary manslaughter for her role in his death.
>>> a mother is furious about the way she says a school treated her son. she says her 11-yearold has autism and needs a quiet learning environment, but she says the school's plan was to
put his desk in the bathroom. danielle says she received a shock this week when she went to
her 11-year-old son's classroom. >> the teacher said he would be studying in the bathroom. >>
in this picture you can see a desk sitting over the toilet and a chair next to the sink. >> he was
expected to use that mat to sleep in the bathroom floor. >> lucas require special needs. her son
has autism and loud sounds are triggering. >> we were trying to find a quieter place for him to
work. >> in the past with the district there have been no issues meeting to lucas' educational
needs. >> i was excited. >> he started sixth grade and said now there is only one thing he feels.
>> i feel scared. >> the faculty at the school did not provide any alternative learning space for
her son. she took him out of school before he ever had to use the bathroom as a classroom. >>
we are still waiting to hear from the district. >> officials would not speak on camera but they
did provide a statement saying we are continuing to look into this but at this time it appears
that the restaurant was set up as a possible separate quiet learning space, but no student was
placed in there. the desk has been removed and the staff aware that the space should not be
used for that purpose in the future. we are unable to share specific details about our student,
but we can tell you keeping our students safe and engaged in learning are a >> that's great that
they remove the desk but that does not help my son's health -- by self-esteem or
embarrassment.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 20 • 4:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_138

jeff: tonight we are learning more about the tragic death of a beloved firefighter in cowlitz
county. authorites say battalion chief mike zainfeld died by suicide. jennifer: the fire chief for
cowlitz 2 fire and rescue tells us the 41-year-old husband and father was struggling with post
traumatic stress disorder related to his job. something that's all too common for first
responders. our amy frazier is live in kelso where the fire chief is encouraging anyone who's
struggling to reach out for help. reporter: as you can imagine, this is a difficult time for both
firefighters here and the community. right now they're really focusing on supporting each other
and the firefighters family. battalion chief mike zainfeld was a firefighter for cowlitz 2 fire and
rescue for 25 years. co-workers say he was always the person who stepped up to help others.
but the fire chief tells me zainfeld was struggling with post traumatic stress injuries related to
both long term exposure to traumatic events, as well as specific incidents like recovering bodies
during the oso landside back in 2014. zainfeld was off-duty and on medical leave when he took
his own life yesterday. because of his struggles they do consider this a line of duty death. today,
police, firefighters, family and friends gathered together to travel to the coroner's office to
128

escort his body to a local funeral home. before they left the fire chief offered this message to
other first responders and the community. >> the message is, don't be so tough that you think
you can't share what your issues are with somebody. there is always somebody that we can
find that you can talk to that will help. reporter: warning signs of suicide can include talking
about feeling hopeless, sleeping too little or too much as well as withdrawing from others. if
you are worried about yourself or a loved experts say one, don't hesitate to contact the crisis
line or a doctor for help rid firefighters from around the area are helping to cover shifts here
during this difficult time. a memorial service will be announced in the coming days. jennifer: it is
a good reminder to everybody going through something, it is so important we check on our
friends and family and neighbors and ask, are you ok? if someone is struggling, here is an
important number of lines for, life at 800-273-8255. you can also text 273-talk to 839863 for
help.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Sep 21 • 1:42 AM

B_SEP_OREG_139

jeff: we're learning more about the tragic death of a beloved firefighter in cowlitz county.
authorites say he died by suicide. jennifer: battaltion chief mike zainfeld was a firefighter for
cowlitz 2 fire and rescue for 25 years. he is part of a team that helped recover bodies after the
oso landslide in 2014. the fire chief says zainfeld was struggling with post traumatic stress
injuries related to his job. he was off duty and on medical leave when he took his own life
yesterday. police, firefighters, family and friends gathered together to travel to the coroner's
office today to escort his body to a local funeral home. >> the message is don't be so tough that
you think you can't share what your issues are with somebody. there is always somebody that
we can find that you can talk to that will help. jennifer: let's all remember to reach out and ask
our family and friends, people we might work with, if they are doing ok. there are warning signs
of suicide. they can include talking about feeling hopeless, sleeping too little or too much, as
well as withdrawing from others. jeff: if you or someone you know is struggling right now, call
lines for life at 800-273-8255. you can also text 273-talk to 839863 for help.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 21 • 6:54 AM

B_SEP_WASH_86

my mother's side, an you thinkle who had a suicide attempt in his youth and survived. we don't
say commit suicide. we say die by suicide. it is an effective mental health condition to dew by
suicide. >> and we weak sure we mentioned that as well when we discuss it here. there is help
and i know how much it affects so many families. how can people reach out? i mean nomi is
there. you are saying we'll help you with open arms even if finance is an issue. >> most of our
programs are free, which is why the gala brunch is so important for us because we need the
funding from donors and from grants from corporations and cities in order to be able to provide
these free programs. we have support groups for families. we have support groups for peers.
we do this in the schools program that is critical in reaching our youth to prevent suicide and
help people recognize the sign and symptoms of depression or bipolar or anxiety. and so this is
129

the largest grassroots mental health organization in the united states. >> we are talking here so
much about mental health in young people. it is a situation we are all very concerned about due
to all of the things that have happened in schools recently. so the fact that you are trying to
reach young people, that is effectively saving many lives possibly. we brought you here to talk
about this gala, the stepping into the light gal a when is that happening. the gail ais happening
october 12, 9:00 a.m. so it's breakfast gal a i will be not here at king 5. i will be with you to talk
about this because this is a very…
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 21 • 8:47 AM

B_SEP_WASH_87

important issue in my hive as well. how can people help? can they still attend the gala? >> they
are can go our web site, wwww.nomi-eastside.org and they can go on to the registration link
and sign up to attend this gala. tickets are $100. we all have what michelle calls living lightly for
those that have some financial difficulties. and they can attend for a much lower price. we also
have table captains that have purchased tables and will offer seats to people for free as well. so
we really need people to sign up for the gala. we also offer sponsorships to corporations and
health providers and non-profit who would like to be featured at our gala. >> that is good to
know. >> so they can support our work. >> they can find you there that link. i will put that on
my facebook page as well. >> they can also go ahead and contribute online even if they are not
able to attend. t his is a great fund-raising event for us. >> thank you. it means a lot. let's all try
to erase the stigma of hennal health issues. >> you and i are all about let's get it out there. >>
my heart is beating fast for you. >> i lot of you don't know my father tied by suicide. i don't
want to say committed. it just sucks. i need to get distracted on something el right here.
KOBI
Sep 21 • 6:21 PM

B_SEP_OREG_140

community news tonight... more than 500 people turned out in medford to raise awareness
about suicide prevention and mental health today. participants and teams walked two miles
together wearing different colored shirts and signs symbolizing a personal connection or loss of
a loved one. at pear blossom park, 24 community groups gathered in one place to offer
resources... and local services to help those who's lives have been touched by suicide. "we can't
save people if we aren't having a conversation about it and we have to break the stigma about
saying the world suicide and talking about mental and being strong." the event raised 22thousand dollars... which is going towards research, educational programs and advocacy efforts
locally.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Sep 21 • 4:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_88

the high rate of suicide among veterans is I'm change that's according to new V.A. statistics
NPR's alliance report suicide has risen among veterans and civilians this figure remains at about
20 per day that's active troops and veterans who died by suicide this latest annual tally includes
130

data only through 2017 and it breaks down the number of 20 per day he do about 17 veterans
and 3 active duty reservists but that does not indicate the rate has gone down the V.A.
considered suicide Prevention a top priority but suicide defies easy explanation for example
veterans who went to war have lower rates than those who were never deployed one clear
difference between veterans and civilians is the use of firearms and suicide veterans are much
more likely to know how to use guns and civilians particularly female veterans who have the
suicide rate more than twice that of civilian women.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Sep 21 • 8:35 PM

B_SEP_WASH_89

Let's go the next I am in one highly for lenient worried I'm hearing from a different it brian
members our panel back in one of the general election about I different approach and that
people are seeking to address the effect Prevention and I'm in the veteran community it was
really helpful here directly and you're speaking earlier from know working and match on better
about what we may get that bet that they're working hard and young children feeling like with
the way everything you need to get up and D I'm kinda one away and he says I'm that
perspective and many of and just pressed pause right there and say that as it is national suicide
awareness month you could have picked a better month to do that and it's an issue that I liken
to lock with a 1000 keys there's just one way to open it and every program its dedicated
towards resources for that is awesome and anything we can do to empower and discussed it
and further the conversation really makes a difference and I salute all of you for you including
that in the symposium jim what was your favorite take away told my favorite take away
something that you hear every year what did the willingness of the people that defend and
organization that it time for government for community-based program the willing to work
together and they come away from the podium with the renewed energy that clobbered and
we all play everything together we can we can really make some changes I don't like felt the
mentioned Americans were partnership the media research study four-year 14 community level
research study done characterizing veteran suicide at the local level so we can better
implement Prevention practices I'm not only in the community were researching which we
should probably of the community our I he left American terms community tour operator
immunity but then good move for we talk about the move from pitching for the two were going
to pick the right one thing for sure going to take and along that path and the journey each step
of the way is meant to save a life and I salute you for doing that some thank you all very much
for your time today course of the Institute for veterans and military families but Syracuse
University's dedication to the better community and jim rain with America's war your
partnership I can't thank you enough where I find each of you are online can find information
about the in the queue for veterans and military families.

131

KDRV (ABC)
Sep 22 • 5:57 PM

B_SEP_OREG_141

medford police are investigating an officer involved shooting. thanks for joining us this evening,
i'm adam schumes. and i'm cassidy delamarter. this shooting happened earlier today around 10.
police say they got a call about a suicidal 55-year-old man. newswatch 12's mari nelson is live in
medford with the latest. mari what have you found out cassidy and adam. i'm at a home on
seroba circle in medford. police say -- officers arrived on scene and got no answer at the door,
and no answer on the mans cell phone. officers blood trail towards the back of the home and
made the decision force entry. police say once the door was opened, officers could see the man
standing inside, but continued to walk towards the officers with one hand behind his back. then
man then pulled a knife out from behind his back as he walked towards the officers. police say
two officers deployed a taser as one officer fired, almost simultaneously. the subject dropped
the knife and fell to the ground. the condition. five officers were on scene at the time of the
shooting. three of the officers will be placed on paid administrative leave, per protocol. the case
is still under investigation
KOBI
Sep 21 • 11:21 PM

B_SEP_OREG_142

community news tonight... more than 500 people turned out in medford to raise awareness
about suicide prevention and mental health today. participants and teams walked two miles
together wearing different colored shirts and signs symbolizing a personal connection or loss of
a loved one. at pear blossom park, 24 community groups gathered in one place to offer
resources... and local services to help those who's lives have been touched by suicide. "we can't
save people if we aren't having a conversation about it and we have to break the stigma about
saying the world suicide and talking about mental and being strong." the event raised 22thousand dollars... which is going towards research, educational programs and advocacy efforts
locally.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 22 • 8:05 AM

B_SEP_OREG_143

cougar nation is honoring the memory of a star quarterback who took his own life. it's been
almost two years since tyler lewinski's death and ever since his name fought the stigma around
mental illness for student athletes. >> all the proceeds from the tailgate will go towards tyler's
foundation. the cougars are a very tight fan base. most people say they didn't know tyler
personally but say his death touched them all. any good football game starts with a tailgate. but
this is special. this one is for number 3. >> tyler hilinski. >> he was the most vibrant, nice
person, so happy about life. >> most people here at tap's growler house didn't know him
personally but his death still made a huge impact on coug nation. >> it really hurt everyone's
heart. it took a while to even talk about it but now i'm glad everyone is talking about it. >> the
suicide came as a surprise even to those closest to him. his death slowly turned into meaningful
conversations about mental health. >> we just want people to treat mental health as they do
132

physical health. >> his family started hilinski's hope foundation, a nonprofit aimed at removing
the stigma around mental illness. his aunt christine hopes no more student athletes will suffer
in silence as tyler did. >> we're trying to live out what might have been his life. giving back.
contributing to society. making a difference. >> especially in the athletic world. hannah was a
cheerleader at washington state for four years. she cheered on tyler during some of his biggest
games. she says people still don't understand that an athlete's fight isn't over once the game
ends. >> you always have to be smiling and on no matter what because you're the face of the
university. you never know what someone is going through. >> the hope is to give someone the
courage to speak up. >> it doesn't say anything about the person you are or what you're able to
accomplish both physically or emotionally or mentally. we all need help at different points in
our lives. so don't be afraid to ask for it. >> tyler's aunt tells me his parents travel adross the
country visiting schools, spreading tyler's legacy. >> this story comes as another washington
community is mourningthe loss of a firefighter. mike seanfeld died by suicide thursday
afternoon. he was put on leave last spring after being diagnosed with ptsd. they hope to hold a
memorial service in early october. >> experts say most mental health crises are temporary and
will pass. there are always people willing to talk you through it. you can call the national lifeline
any time at the number on your screen.
B_SEP_OREG_144

KATU-POR (ABC)
Sep 21 • 11:04 PM

it's been nearly two years since tyler hilinski's death. cougar watch game party tonight,
catherine, this bar has dedicated the night to tyler. >> yes, all the proceeds from tonight's event
will go toward tyler's foundation. as you can see we're surrounded by cougars. it's a pretty
intense environment right now. the game is pretty close.th is a very tight fan base as you can
imagine. most of these people tell me they didn't know tyler halinski personally, but they say
his death touched them all. >> any good football game starts with a tailgate. but this one is
special. this one is for number 3, tyler halinski. >> he was so vibrant, nicest person i've met. so
full of life. >> his death still made a huge impact on coug nation. tyler's suicide came as a
surprise, even to those closest to him. his death slowly turned in to meaningful conversations
about mental health. >> we just want people to treat mental health as they do physical health.
>> his family started halinski's hope foundation. his aunt, christine, hopes that no more student
athletes will suffer in silence as tyler did. >> we're trying to live out what might have been his
life of giving back and contributing to society, and making a difference. >> especially in the
athletic world. hannah dollar was a cheerleader at washington state for four years. she cheered
on tyler during some of his big games. people still don't understand that an athlete's fight isn't
over once a game ends. >> you always have to be smiling. you always have to be on no matter
what because you're the face of the university. you never know what someone is going
through. >> the hope is to get someone to speak up. >> what you're able to accomplish both
physically or emotionally or mentally. we all need help at different points in our lives. so don't
be afraid to ask for it. >> now tyler's aunt tells me his parents travel across the country visiting
schools spreading tyler's legacy. we're live in vancouver, catherine. >>> this comes as the
washington community is mourning the loss of a firefighter. battalion chief mike zanefeld died
133

by suicide. fire officials say they hope to hold a memorial service for zanefeld some time in early
october. >>> experts say most mental health crisis are temporary and they will pass. there are
always people willing to talk you through it. you can call the national hotline anywhere on your
screen.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 23 • 2:51 PM

B_SEP_OREG_145

always good naysayers first though those go first to barbara barbara welcomed the lars larson
show what's on your mind tonight 8 years we feel that every American should have unfettered
access to guns and a person about unit will you acknowledge I never said that they were in fact
may help people no gun is ever held in person people have used the app people have used guns
to kill people just like these automobiles airplanes hammers of baseball bats but no gone on its
own or is it I hear Pence are you telling me that I did not find my heart and what they've
forward in his caddie Tripoli with all his blood on the floor less than 3 months ago you telling
me that I am sorry up no no mam I use sound very angry that I'd rather have a reasonable
conversation I'm not saying your husband when she cared not trying to unwind you in fact
killed I'm trying to answer your question mam 10 uninsured but it OK your husband may have
killed himself using a pistol and that is a sad thing to do many people killed themselves with
many means like people kill themselves with pills by jumping off tall buildings or bridges people
kill themselves a great many ways but that the pill didn't know if somebody overdoses the killed
didn't kill the person the person decided to commit son's suicide using it and it's an important
distinction because yesterday the new York times said 50 airplanes on September 11th aimed
to themselves the buildings in downtown new York that's not true islamic terrorists aimed
airplanes they used the airplanes as 8 killing tool your husband said to say I'm sorry for your
loss he decided by the way to combat that trend around the country what kind take care of him
when he came out all guns how that's a separate that's developed a proud man you allowed to
buy a pistol with no background just thought to have mambo era your question so the audience
know what's going on when did your husband by this position you know about a month and a
half before his death where was he able to buy a pistol without a background check because
you live in a state where background checks required for all pistol and rifle sales with a revolver
at the background checks required for all revolvers did who did you buy it from that allowed
him to buy without filling out a form 44 _seventy_ _three_ background checks fingerprints
picture I.D. and 8 and a background check to the national instant check system what you're
describing does not happen if he bought it from any license in fact if you do a private sale in
States that already have background checks there are required for all transfers how was he able
to buy his pistol without a background check it why didn't you ask the pure man I'm gonna ask
you worst them if he bought it at a gun store he was required to go through a background
check every sing in fact when I buy buy firearms from time to time usually one or two year and
every single one even then background check dozens of times I regard to go through
background checks when you say he bought with no background check that's simply not true if
you bought from a licensed gun dealer you understand them and and even if he had bought
from a key what it do you understand that act easy access to guns is one of a number one In
reaching that veteran killed and fell know can you acknowledge Yes it is there is a fact would
134

you like me off for use in truth the suicide is not tied to gun ownership a heart with the the
want to give me something factual error and guys do in fact I am hold on to of the number one
countries and in the world for Suarez opened Feltman him to have the number one countries in
the world for suicide or Japan and South Korea both good country's but they have
extraordinarily tight controls on guns make our gun laws you know their gun laws are very very
tough and for the most part private citizens are not allowed to own guns yet they have some
high suicide rates in the world once somebody I met my wife met it doesn't matter what
matters very much so and you are telling me that access to guns that not increased $ Cocula
but at the time that Japan none of them had a high tax rate you do not know what the map it
up guest I not once but if you're thinking that somebody commits suicide because there's a gun
available but there was no gun available they would not find another way to take their life a
feature it that belies common sense that while offer Japan and South korea as examples that
have very high suicide rates much higher than the United States and yet they have almost no
private gun ownership all so by your theory the japanese and South korea should have a much
lower suicide rate because they don't have routine access by citizens to guns and yet they have
higher suicide rates in the United States of America and have almost no private gun ownership
those facts you can study I'm sorry for your loss back in a moment.
KFFX (FOX)
Sep 23 • 8:31 AM

B_SEP_WASH_90

as the washington state cougars recover from their weekend loss-- their weekend loss-"hilinski's hope", a foundation created by the family of w-s-u quarterback tyler hilinksi.. is
making headlines. a headline is in poor taste regarding tyler's brother-- ryan hilinski-- who plays
for south carolina gamecocks. the paper ran the headline: "hilinski hope sinks".. refering to ryan
hilinski's struggle during a game against missouri.it has sparked outrage.. with south carolina
calling the headline unacceptable. hilinski's hope was started after tyler died by suicide. it works
to raise awareness about mental health issues and erase the stigma associated with it.the state
newspaper apologized after the criticism-- saying in part: there is no excuse for such poor
wording and we have reached out to the family and university to express our regrets.
KOBI
Sep 23 • 5:29 PM

B_SEP_OREG_146

a medford man is recovering in the hospital tonight after an officer involved shooting over the
weekend. according to medford police... initial reports came in of a suicidal man in northwest
medford. m-p-d says the 55-year-old was shot after ignoring commands and approaching
officers with a knife. two of the three officers fired tasers... the other fired their gun - hitting
the man in the torso. m-p-d says every officer in the department is trained in crisis intervention.

135

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 23 • 8:40 AM

B_SEP_WASH_91

football season well underway very special tailgate event was held over the weekend
Vancouver was a fundraiser for killins these hope that a Foundation set up by the family of W
issue quarterback Tyler linsky took his own life almost two years ago we get more from almost
carly johnson most people it taps Greller House didn't know Helens keep personal about his
death made a huge impact on could nation really hurt everyone went wild be able to even talk
about it and now I'm glad everybody is talking about a Polanski died by suicide January 28 team
his death inspired meaningful conversation so about mental health the often silent suffering of
student athletes Golinski and Christine Hill and give Lombardi we just want people to treat
mental health physical health fewer someone you know needs help with mental health crisis
call lines for life 8 Hunter to 7 3 talk or you can text home to 7 4 won 7.1
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 23 • 7:50 PM

B_SEP_WASH_92

in January will be two years since the tragic death by suicide of Washington state University star
quarterback Tyler lewinsky over the weekend very special tailgate event before the football
game was all about number 3 almost currently johnson report search Saturday night's tailgate
event had tapped Greller House was a fundraiser for Alan Keyes hope the Foundation created
by his family after Tyler died January 28 team wishes the most pipe dream nice person I've met
just so happy about life and $ former was a cheerleader new tyler but had no idea he was
suffering with a deep depression she says she can understand though the pressure on him you
have to always be smiling you always have to be fun no matter what because you're the face of
the University and you never know what's going Ocalan's keys hope Foundation is nonprofit
aimed at removing the stigma around mental illness especially for student athletes if you or
someone you know needs help with mental health crisis called 100 to 7 3 tock or you can text
the word home to 7 4 won 7.1
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 23 • 6:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_93

ryan hilinski is a freshman quarterback at south carolina in that state second biggest newspaper
published the story yesterday about a pretty poor performance from the kid on saturday as the
gamecocks lost to missouri and it says hilinski's hope sinks. the family lost another one of their
sons, tyler, to suicide january of last year. he was the quarterback at washington state at the
time and after he died the family started their foundation.hilinski's hope to fund programs to
advocate for mental illness, destigmatize and talk about suicide as well. the newspaper
apologized in a series of tweets saying that this was a play on words that was an intentional and
the copy editor who is based in a different city there were the newspapers were trying to talk
about the hope that ryan had brought the team and it was in the article and instead put in the
headline and it came out horribly in they say they have all apologized both to the family and the
school and they say it was unintentional and people are calling on the newspaper do something
136

else besides just apologize, to make a donation to the foundation which perhaps they will. you
were saying maybe they will cancel their subscriptions to the newspaper although threats come
like that a lot on social media. the bottom line is just a really horrible situation in south carolina
in the trying to rectify the kid is a true freshman. 18 or 19 years old. >> but maybe the copy
editor didn't know about the foundation and that is why they use the word hope? maybe he
didn't realize how insensitive it was? >> it seems theopy editor is based in charlotte and the
newspaper is in south carolina and the short of putting the blame on the copy editor who we
presume will face some kind of discipline.
KHQ (NBC)
Sep 23 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_94

new now.... the state newspaper in south carolina is apologizing for a headline from over the
weekend that targeted the gamecocks quarterback ryan hilinski... tyler's younger brother. khq's
claire graham is in the newsroom tonight with a look at the reactions and what the newspaper
is now saying to the university and the hilinski family. the headline said 'hilinski hope sinks'...
because the unviersity of south carolina... which was led by quarterback ryan hilinksi... lost to
missouri over the weekend. the hilinski hope foundation was started when hylinski's brother...
w-s-u quarterback... tyler hilinsky... died from suicide. the foundation works to raise awareness
about mental health erase the stigma issues... and to associated with it. on sunday.., the
newspaper in south carolina released a statement... saying in part sincerest quote "our
apologies to the hilinski family today for the unfortunate headline in our print edition today.
although the connection between the headline and the foundation was unintentional... there is
no excuse for such poor wording... and we have reached out to the family and university to
express our regrets." when the headline came out... the south carolina university of also
released a statement... saying in part quote "we don't believe their apology is enough. we urge
the state to be a leader in advocating and destigmatizing mental illness... by making a very
public effort to help fund and provide educational awareness to this very real problem." this
morning the hilinski hope foundation released a statement as well... saying.... "in difficult
times... we look to this quote... we hope it helps you too. "tragedy should be used as a source
of strength. no matter whasort of difficulties... how painful our experience is... if we lose our
hope... that is the real disaster. hashtag mental health.... hashtag united... hashtag forever to 3
KONG-SEA
Sep 23 • 8:31 AM

B_SEP_WASH_95

south carolina paper is apologizing for using a headline that was insensitive about his younger
brother. >> after his younger brother who is a true freshman ryan has pretty bad game on
saturday night, this was the headline. hilinski hope sinks. it was a foundation started after tyler
died by suicide last year. people said what with going on. the paper said it was unintentional.
the copier works in a different place. he was trying to bring hope into the title and had no idea
that the foundation was called hilinski hilinski hope and maybe not aware of the background
itself. the paper apologized to the people and south carolina program. we'll see if something
comes of it if not greater awareness of the foundation and purpose of the foundation. it could
137

be painful moment over the weekend for the family and those touched by the topic. >> and
anyone who knows about hilinski's hope, first reaction you have is ow. >> we hope that
everyone has a better understanding, but not everyone does.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 23 • 2:36 PM

B_SEP_WASH_96

in January it will be two years since the death by suicide Washington state University star
quarterback Tyler lewinsky over the weekend a very special tailgate event before the football
game was all about number 3 was carly johnson reports. Saturday night's tailgate event had
tapped Greller House was a fundraiser for Alan Keyes hope the Foundation created by his
family after Tyler died January 28 team you this is the most wide bream nice person I've met
just so happy about life can $ former was a cheerleader new tyler but had no idea he was
suffering with a deep depression she says she can understand though the pressure on him you
have to always be smiling you always have to be on no matter what because you're the face of
the University and you never know what's going opulence keys hope Foundation is nonprofit
aimed at removing the stigma around mental illness especially for student athletes if you or
someone you know needs help with a mental health crisis called 100 to 7 3 tock or you can text
the word home to 7 4 won 7.1 carly johnson colonias Meanwhile some folks are so sensitive
South Carolina is the state newspaper has now issued an apology for highly insensitive headline
which led to massive backlash on the Internet the South Carolina Gamecocks lost their game
against the Missouri Tigers on Saturday despite the efforts of freshman quarterback Ryan
Polanski and he is the younger brother of Tyler Golinski whose death by suicide led to the
creation of the Foundation Let's hope the newspaper headlines said Polanski hope sinks stay
was quick to issue an apology and explanation saying the copy editors have to trim headlines to
fit into space available in newspapers and an error was made up editors around here And I
don't know I don't know if we buy that apology to 40 co-owners I won't speak for all the others
I don't buy it.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 23 • 1:40 PM

B_SEP_WASH_97

with football season well underway a very special tailgate event happened over the weekend in
Vancouver a fundraiser for killins keys hope the Foundation set up by the family of WSU's star
quarterback Tyler Collins the he died by suicide almost two years ago more income most carly
johnson most people it taps Greller House didn't know Hiland keep personally but his death
made a huge impact Duncan nation everyone's wild polenski died by suicide January 28 team
his death inspired meaningful conversation about mental health the often silent suffering for
student athletes linskey and Christine Hill and the lombardi we just want people to treat mental
health as they physical out if you or someone you know needs help with mental health crisis
call lines for life 800 to 7 3 talk or you can text home to 7 4 won 7.1.

138

KTVL (CBS)
Sep 23 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_147

Reporter: the medford police department talked before the media today involving yesterday's
officer involved shooting where two officers deployed a taser. one used their firearm. both
officers are currently on administrative leave per policy. it occurred around 9:30 in the morning
yesterday. on seroba circle. officers received a call of a presumed suicidal man identified as
steven myers. he then approached officers with a knife and was asked to drop his weapon and
show his hands. >> two officers deployed a taser and one officer fired a firearm. this did occur
simultaneously. the subject dropped the knife and fell to the ground. as i mentioned, we did
have medford fire on the scene. they immediately rendered aid. >> the chief mentioned the
department wants to make sure they do a thorough investigation and care for their officers at
this time. he also said that when an officer decides to use nonlethal or lethal force, that
depends on the situation. in a perfect world according to him, they would like to resort to
something less lethal. sundays case is being investigated by the major death and assault unit.
the lead agency on this case right now is the oregon state police. with your connection live in
medford, sammy shaktah, news 10.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 23 • 6:00 AM

B_SEP_OREG_148

medford police are investigating an officer involved shooting. this incident happened just
before 10am yesterday morning. it started with officers responding to a call of a suicidal man at
a home in north medford. police say that the caller was a concerned relative of a 55 year old
man.. the initial investigation revealed that no one answered the door when police got to the
home. officers found a blood trail towards the back of the home, and made the decision to
break open the door. police say they saw the man standing inside. they stayed outside and tried
to talk to him. police say the man came towards officers with a knife as they were backed up
against a fence. two officers on the scene tazed the man and a third officer shot his gun. the
man was taken to the hospital where he is in stable condition. the man's name is not being
released at this time. three officers will be placed on paid administratice leave, per protocol.
the major assault and death investigation unit and oregon state police are currently
investigating. a press conference will take place later this morning... and we will provide you
with the latest on this incident throughout the day.
KOBI
Sep 23 • 5:57 PM

B_SEP_OREG_149

a day after police say a suicidal man came at officers with a knife... medford police say mental
health calls are becoming an all too common part of their job. good evening and thank you for
choosing nbc five news at six... i'm kristina zagame. and i'm blakely mchugh. craig and kristin
are off tonight. the man who was shot is in stable condition. the 55-year-old hasn't been
charged with a crime, so nbc5 news has decided not to disclose his name. medford police chief
scott clauson says the three officers involved have been placed on paid administrative leave...
139

that's standard protocol in officer involved shootings. nbc5s miles furuichi has more on what
police are doing to handle mental health calls... in our top story at 6. "sunday morning police
received reports of a suicidal man here on seroba circle. what transpired afterwards highlights
the need for crisis intervention and how important it is to understand when someone needs
help." "the whole protocol and the strategy is to deescalate situations." shots fired in a
northwest medford neighborhood sunday morning involved a 55-year-old man and three
medford police officers. according to m-p-d... initial reports came in of a suicidal man.
"provided information stating goodbye in a text." when officers arrived... m-p-d says the man
ignored commands and walked towards them with a knife. two of the three officers fired
tasers... the other fired their gun - hitting the man in the torso. chief scott clauson says it's
common to have both weapons available in case things get heated. "that's a pretty standard
protocol for us on a scene like that. you always want to try all the options that you have."
clauson says every mpd officer is trained in crisis intervention. that includes 40 hours of indepth training on mental illness each year. "it gives us some tools to be able to speak to folks
and deescalate situations." for police, dealing with these types of mental health calls is
becoming an almost daily occurrence. each year for the past several years... m-p-d has
responded to over 500 calls of suicide or attempted suicide. as of june of this year... 292 calls. in
that same time...each year the department has also made hundreds of mental health referrals.
463 were made in the first half of this year alone. "it's something that we're certainly having
conversations and working with our mental health partners to try and address." medford police
say mental health is now at the forefront of what they deal with. but training can only prepare
officers so much. "the case is still being investigated. once it's complete... it will be brought to a
grand jury who will review it and make a decision.
KMTR (NBC)
Sep 23 • 5:37 PM

B_SEP_OREG_150

as we near the end of national suicide prevention awareness month, the recent death of a man
and eugene shined a light on the role mental illness can play. stephanie rothman talks with his
family. >> reporter: it is a whole new world for us.>> they were together for almost 9 years, he
was only a few weeks away from starting a new job when he died by suicide. a >> he pretty
much ran from you, i didn't want him to go but he ran for me and i was on the phone with the
cops when it had happened because i knew he was going to hurt himself and when i was on the
phone with him is when i heard the gunshot go off. >> after suffering from the self-inflicted
gunshot wound, he was declared brain-dead on september 14, soon after, he passed away. >>
all i could do was give him love and family but unfortunately it just i just wish he could've
gotten more. >> a father of three, he battled with depression his whole life. >> mental illness is
not easy to get taken care of in the united states. a >> in a report by linn county public health,
more than 60% of men who died by suicide never sought mental health treatment before
taking their life. buford only recently reached out, his name on the waitlist for several
therapists. now that he has gone, she wants his story to be a wake-up call. for others to get
help. a >> even if it is the worst thing in the world even if it is something that you are just
ashamed of, sometimes just saying it, releases it and then you can get help.

140

KONG-SEA
Sep 23 • 7:04 PM

B_SEP_WASH_98

a man is dead after jumping in front of an on coming train while holding his five-year-old
daughter. miraculously she is alive with only minor injuries. video of the little girl is absolutely
unforgettable. here's les trent. >> reporter: it's a heart stopping image. a little girl is crawling
out from under the train. morning rush hour passengers watch in horror. the girl is five years
old. the train actually ran over here but somehow she ducked in time. good samaritans rushed
to help. one man lifted her to the platform. she still wearing her pink school backpack. it
happened at a subway station in the bronx new york. so how did she end up here? police say
moments earlier the little girl's father jumped into the path of an on coming train in an
apparent suicide bid and he took his daughter with him. other passengers tried to alert the
train conductor to stop the train as it pulled into the station, but it was too late. the father was
run over but by some miracle the little girl survived. this haunting image shows the father and
daughter at the subway station last year. miraculously the little girl only suffered scratches. she
has been reunited with her mother. >> if you or someone you know is having thoughts of
suicide, contact the national suicide prevention lifeline. 1(800)273-8255. 800-273-talk.
KLSR (FOX)
Sep 23 • 7:02 PM

B_SEP_OREG_151

september is suicide prevention month. eugene family is urging those with mental illness to
reach out for help. adam buford died by suicide. his wife says he lost his life on title with
depression after going years without seeking help. he recently sought out help. she is hoping
his story will help others to do the same but much sooner. >> he had a difficult childhood and it
carried over into his adulthood. just thinking people don't care about him and that this world
owed him. >> he leaves behind his wife and three daughters. later tonight we learn more about
his struggle and how his wife hopes others can learn from his death.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 23 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_152

september is suicide prevention month and a eugene family is urging those suffering with
mental illness ask for help. they lost a husband and a father of three when adam died by
suicide. his wife said he lost his battle with depression after going years without seeking help.
he recently sought out therapy but he died before he could get the help he needed. she is
hoping this will push others to get help much sooner. >> he had a hard childhood and it carried
over into adulthood. thinking people don't care about him. thinking the world owed him. >> he
leaves behind his wife and three daughters. coming up on kval news at 6:00 p.m. we will learn
more about his struggle and how his family is hoping others can learn from his death.

141

KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 23 • 4:28 PM

B_SEP_OREG_153

a washington eighth grader is taking on one of america's most difficult challenges, veteran
suicide. eric wilkinson spoke with the teen who is on a mission for change. >> reporter: 13-yearold tyee eliason runs two to three miles every day carrying the colors. it started as a simple act
of patriotism when he was just 6, but recently things got much more serious. >> this is a button
made in remembrance and honor of major justin fitch. >> reporter: major fitch saw one of
tyee's posts on facebook. the two became friends. the army veteran was dying of colon cancer
and working to stop veteran suicides. before he passed major fitch asked tyee to pick up that
torch by carrying the flag. >> this is his mission that he cannot carry on any longer and he needs
somebody to do so for him. >> reporter: tyee is just that. he ransom 500 miles this summer
alone often stopping people in their tracks. >> i'm helping prevent veteran suicide. >> oh,
you're a wonderful young man. >> thank you. >> reporter: but this is about more than raising
awareness. tyee says during one of his runs a man stopped him and told him he'd heard about
the teen's mission. that apparently inspired the man to think twice about suicide. >> he saw the
message that i was trying to get out there and he changed his ways. >> reporter: tyee plans to
continue spreading that message to veterans as far as his feet will take him. >> if they have
these feelings of not wanting to live in this world anymore, that there are people out there
caring for them and supporting them. >> if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicidal
thoughts, help is available. you can call the national suicide prevention help line, 1- 800-2738255.
KDRV (ABC)
Sep 23 • 5:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_154

mpd officer involve``d shooting-dual box newswatch 12's mari nelson talked with the medford
police chief today about why two officers used a taser and one resorted to a firearm. she joins
us live with the protocol response from police in a situation a like this. [a14]mpd officer
involved shooting-stinger today i talked with the medford police chief about why two officers
used a taser and one officer shot, all about at the same time. he told me that all officers have
gone through crisis intervention training to learn how to react in this type of situation. he says
it's a 40 hour course. one of three officers involved in this incident is actually an instructor of
the crisis intervention course. it's a training how how to deal with people who have
developmental disabilities, who are in crisis or who may be suicidal. the course teaches officers
how to de-escalate situations like these. the police cheif says the way the officers responded
was protocol. [a16]mpd officer involved shooting-sotvo "obviously in a perfect world we would
love to resolve everything with less lethal. we don't recommend or even train to use a taser
against somebody with a knife however we had options there, we have enough people there to
be able to try that option." it's still under investigation how close myers was to officers at the
time the shot was fired--police say they were in a small backyard. the police chief says that
mental health related instances are on the rise in the rogue valley. he says medford police
responds to suicidal calls daily. i talked to multiple neighbors here who say they were shocked

142

to here that an officer involved shooting could happened so close to home. you'll hear from
neighbors coming up on newswatch 12 at 6.
KMTR (NBC)
Sep 23 • 6:45 PM

B_SEP_OREG_155

september is a suicide prevention month and eugene family is urging those suffering with
mental illness to reach out for help. the buford's lost a father and husband when adam buford
died of suicide. his wife, caralee said he lost his life after going years without seeking help.
while adam recently sought treatment from therapy, he died before he can get the help he
needed. she's hoping his story will push others to do the same. but much sooner. >> he had a
hard childhood and it just carried over into his adulthood. he thought that people didn't care
about him. >> adam leaves behind his wife and three daughters michaela, piper, and fiona. >>>
a workshop for caregivers and others involved in end-of- life care is coming to coos county. the
hospice is hosting a unaffordable sustaining treatment. >> to really help the community
understand the difference in navigating the documentation that's out there. this is one
treatment is considered for emergency life- threatening illnesses. >> she says it's end-of-life
care tailored to the patient's beliefs and preferences. it's at south coast hospice on thompson
road in coos bay october 3rd through 15. you can rsvp by emailing or calling fulche.
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 23 • 8:32 AM

B_SEP_OREG_156

the woman who allegedly encouraged her boyfriend to kill himself has been denied parole.
back in june of 20-17...michelle carter was convicted of involuntary manslaughter after a judge
determined her texts to her boyfriend, conrad roy, persuaded him to kill himself. she was
sentenced to 15 months in prison... just last week, she tried to get an early release after serving
about half of that sentence but was denied. the state parole board said keeping her behind bars
is in the best interest of society and mentioned her quote "lack of empathy" for the crime.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 23 • 12:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_157

good afternoon. thank you for joining us for news10 at 12:00. i am mike marut. 20 hours ago
medford police notified the public of an officer-involved shooting. to officers used a stent can
and this morning there was a press conference and police announced the name of the person
was steven myers. the initial call to police, a family member of myers after receiving a text that
alluded to possible committing suicide. myers revealed he had a knife. to officers on the scene
used their tasers and one discharged their gun. >> you always want to try all of the options that
you have but always have something in order to escalate if need be. we train that way. >> the
forced entry decision came one hour after communicating with myers , who was then taken to
rogue regional medical center. he is in stable condition after having surgery. all three officers
involved will be on paid administrative leave and we provided the conference on our website
www.ktvl.com
143

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Sep 23 • 6:08 PM

B_SEP_WASH_99

leaders across the state gathered today to ask state lawmakers to fully fund a bill that aims to
keep kids safe in schools. house bill 1216 aims to give resources and training to prevent and
intervene in mental and behavioral health or suicide crisis. >> my little grandson just started
first grade this year. i do not want to worry about him every morning when he leaves for school.
i want to ask him what he learned in school today. not if he came home safe and alive. kids
need to be safe in school and house bill 1216 does just >> the bill seeks to fund two that. staff.
one would be for mental health support, and the second for safety coordination.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 23 • 6:40 PM

B_SEP_WASH_100

and seeing mass shootings in the school so often will make me scared for my life. my peers and
i shouldn't have to worry about this when we come baa school. >> the ninth grader is the
president at fife columbia junior high, a part of the campaign trying to get them to hire more
mental health experts to work with the school districts and to help student who is may be
depressed or suicidal. and state representative lori dolan passed a bill for teacher training on
how to spot troubled students. but next year she plans to push for more funding to ensure
those students will get counseling.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 23 • 12:51 PM

B_SEP_OREG_158

so if you watch the Democrat presidential field you're going to see virtually all of them pushing
for some kind of universal health care meaning health care paid for by the taxpayers and with
no alternative source few of other private-sector alternatives but what happens when universal
health care is run by bureaucrats who say we don't pay for life-saving treatment about we talk
about that with wesley Smith whose the off an author and senior fellow of the discovery
Institute Center on human exceptionalism Wesley welcome back thank you good to be with you
and your listeners I the EU's canada like you do frequently as an example of this is what
national health care is all about which many people say Oh it's great it's free I say well nothing
is free it's paid for by taxpayers and Yes I'm sure it's very convenient that when you have some
minor malady a broken leg or cold or the flu or something you can you can go to a clinic walk-in
get treatment walk out no paperwork no bill no nothing but it doesn't work that way for more
serious ailments does it I can you not to do and that the be Canadian system tends to ration
health care by weaving line so that people had to wait very long time it's to save the kind of
treatment that we here in the state can joan received relatively quickly and then added one
other element Mars Canada have legalized lethal injection euthanasia deaf what happens when
you leave alive doctors killing patients into a single payer health care system in which some
patients become on do expensive a you kind of and being pushed toward a particular choice if
you catch my drift with regard to how you should proceed and in fact it was just the case and
144

Canada also names John taggert th grt who have the garrisons leave ohio and he wanted to
continue to have fun at all somebody could be near his son well be but bureaucrats you need
Canadian health care system meant to better schools to offer comprehensive treatment
wouldn't give him sufficient coverage to allow him to stay at home I wanted him to actually go
to a nursing home which should be left quality care that he had at home Deal in which up to
one month they didn't even and eventually he decided he couldn't keep fighting them after a
poor respond to his appeal he got an ad community health care system paid had been killed
White dog now in this case let me point out one other element because you're talking
candidate you can't really talk about cost although there is as I said cause for everything but
asking to be cared for at home is generally less expensive than then going into a nursing home
in effect I know that a lot of America lot of parts of America their agencies of government even
though I will say I would rather have people cared for at home if they can be you know their
condition allows the because checking into a nursing home even an inexpensive nursing know I
don't know what the current numbers are what is what isn't and minimally acceptable nursing
home 5 6 Grand a month probably hand of course in terms of our Medicare system goes not
cover nursing home care for skilled nursing we're not talking about acute care and people end
up having to go if they once they go through all of their private funds for Medicaid which those
pay for that but in terms of we would be kinda Regina health care system in canada have you
got bureaucrats who plays a checklist medicine earn his keep the same thing United kingdom
with the N.H.L. s any enrollee about a convenience it is about what the Bureau bureaucratic
rules might have to say and what is truly stunning is this purpose and shone had a kegger I
would not give he our attention now to bureaucrats to provide his care but they were more
than happy to approve to pay Orient killing and we've seen that in oregon with assisted suicide
there was a woman named barbara Wagner and a man named Randy troops they had terminal
cancer is they want their doctor they were both on Medicaid which is rationed in oregon they
get this isn't 2008 they both wanted other doctors prescribed last ditch chemo not stabilized
but to extend it card and Medicare and Medicaid program of boredom able to receive letters
saying I'm sorry Ben won't keep you long enough for a life extension for us to pay forward
under the Medicaid system but don't worry we will pay for your assisted suicide now wesley
wesley month let me say something about I know both of those cases pretty well I think they
even went to this extent you imagine yourself subject to this kind of system they looked
barbara Wagner said I think her treatment was going to cause 6 or 7000 box my than 67000
Bucks a year and they said that's only going to get to two more years so they literally start to do
this map where they say Yeah how many extra years months can I buy for a certain number of
dollars and then they start to make decisions on that basis so imagine being told well an extra
2000 dollars only get get your grandmother another 60 days of life or is that same 2000 dollars
we could give this other person of 5 more years of life so you would say but you'd pay anything
to keep your grandmother for another two months and they say Yes but were were were were
running a spreadsheet care and we have to say your grandmother doesn't fit the spreadsheet
this other person does and that's how we're going to make a decision am I wrong not wrong
much not much on the arm by the way assisted suicide was taken awful organs rationing lift to
make sure that it would never be denied so that is one quote treatment close quote that
everyone in Oregon whose legally qualified will be paid for on medicaid that is lethal
prescriptions they can kill himself back for compassion crazy that the with their of all kinds of
145

treatments that is well you you can have this you don't qualify for that the plan doesn't cover
this but you want death will be glad to delivered roughly about right because you know what
what is cheaper than assisted suicide might cost how 100000 dollars for patients to receive the
kind of care that they don't want to kill themselves I call 1000 dollars for assisted suicide and
the force of gravity is quite obvious one imagine this that if you get to this point we know that
the dollar's not unlimited and we know that families have to make decisions based on dollars
and so do health care institutions Ellis a recent study from Washington state's assisted suicide
and have done better in 2018 51% of them one of the reasons they committed the assistance of
a sudden they were worried about being a burden on our family in other words they put
themselves out of their families misery now when you introduced assisted suicide have a quote
choice of people are not choosing it most of the time because they're in pain that cannot be
alleviated gaps the scare tactic to sell out the reason people are choosing that aren't things that
are much more active stance all things that could be dealt with with proper interventions
Wesley we appreciate what you are righted said national review and thanks so much for taking
the time thank you.
KREM (CBS)
Sep 23 • 7:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_101

if you're ever on the streets of granite falls chances are you'll see him unfurling his flags and
pounding the pavement. 13 year old t. liasson calls himself a freedom runner. he runs two to
three miles almost every day carrying the colors. it started as a simple act of patriotism when
he was just 6 but recently things got much more serious. button made in remembrance and
honor of major justin fitch. major justin fitch saw one of ty his posts on facebook. the two
became friends. the army veteran was dying of colon cancer and at the same time working to
stop veteran suicides before he passed. major fitch asked heidi to pick up that torch by carrying
the flag. this is his mission that he cannot carry on any longer and he needs somebody to do so
for him. he is doing just that. he ran some 500 miles this summer alone often stopping people
in their tracks helping prevent veteran suicide all your wonderful young. thank you. but this is
about more than just raising awareness he says during one of his runs. a man stopped him and
told him he'd heard about the teen's mission that apparently inspired the man to think twice
about suicide he saw the message that i was trying to get out there and he changed his ways
and how he plans to continue spraying that message the veterans as far as his feet will take if
they have these feelings of not wanting to live in this world anymore that there are people out
there caring for them. and supporting them in granite falls.
Portland's CW
Sep 23 • 9:35 AM

B_SEP_OREG_159

mel: welcome back. when i came up with the five-second rule, never run a million years did i
think things are simple what have the power to save lives. in january 2016, i received a message
that a man named steve montgomery had used the five second rule to stop himself from
committing suicide. that was the first, and since then, very similar messages keep rolling in. i
speak openly about this around the world and about how you can use the five-second rule to
146

improve your mental health, and one man came up to me after a speech, and i will never forget
him. >> i saw mel speak at a conference in d.c. she talked about a man named steve who was
struggling and wanted to take his own life. he was going to jump off a fairy, but he stopped and
counted backward -- 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 -- and in those five seconds,he made the decision to live. his
story resonated with me because i just lost my brother patrick, who died by suicide. while mel
spoke, i was thinking i just wish patrick had taken five. i was overwhelmed and emotional, but i
became so emotional during the speech and then i realized i needed the five second rule in my
life. i used to love running, but i stopped. i made the decision right there to start living again
and live for a new purpose. steve saved his life and mine. mel: it's been a couple years since i've
seen you. what was it about steve's story that struck you that day? >> i was sitting there
listening to your talk, and then you brought up the story about steve . a man that was fixing to
take his life by jumping off a fairy -- a ferry. it hit close to home because recently i lost my
brother to suicide and i was thinking what if he had heard about this, that something as simple
as counting back 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 could change somebody's life. it made me wonder would patrick
still be here? how many more people will it affect, and how many more people will it change?
mel: it's one reason why i'm on such a mission to share this. i have seen the impact and i know
you are inspired to do something with this amazing tattoo here. >> yes, it started off as a simple
ribbon memorial to patrick. me and my wife were at a store one day checking out, and this
young lady starts crying. she looks at me and says, "i love your tattoos." i said thank you, it's a
memorial to my brother. tears start falling down her cheeks and she says she just lost
somebody a couple weeks ago. mel: if patrick were looking down, which he is, what do you
think he would say about how you are living your life right now? >> i like to think he is happy to
know that he is still loved by everybody in his family. we don't forget at all. i mean, it's tough.
mel: i mentioned steve. that was the story that connected you and me. this was the tweet steve
put up that he tagged me in. he tagged me on social media. >> i was on the point of committing
suicide. the five-second rule kicked in. thank you. mel robbins, thank you. mel: oh, my god.
you've been here the whole time? oh, my god. this is steve. they are meeting for the first time.
i'm meeting him for the first time. here, sit down. sit down, sit down, please. oh, my -- steve, i
need to ask you -- how are you? steve: i'm fantastic. absolutely fantastic. mel: james, what is it
like meeting him for the first time? james: it's amazing. for people that don't know anything
about mental health, this man is a true hero right here. i mean, what he has gone through, to
be able to come back from this, not everybody can do it. a simple tweet that you put out there i
think affected a lot more people than just me. i really do. i think a lot more people have seen
that. mel: it is in the book. i and nearly every speech with it. we have heard from nearly 100
people who have stopped themselves from committing suicide by using the five-second rule.
what do you want people to know? you were at a moment where you were about to end your
life. steve: the inn isn't really the end until it's the end. you can always move on. i was up on the
top deck of a moving ferry, and i go to the edge and try to build up the courage. and then i go,
5, 4, 3, 2, one, move. take the action. [applause] steve: i was diagnosed as low dopamine and
severe depression. i've lost 70 pounds in weight. mel: wow. steve: i was borderline diabetic. i
had a problem with my heart. i took action. if you don't take action, it's never going to work.
mel: that's why it is so powerful. we can talk about what you need to do, but the five-second
rule gives you a tool to push yourself in the moment to have the courage to do what you need
to do. i am so grateful that you are here. [applause] mel: we will be right back. next -- >> it hurts
147

because, you know, i want to be there and i want to reach out. mel: there's only one solution to
this problem.
KFXO (FOX)
Sep 23 • 4:23 PM

B_SEP_OREG_160

research shows a correlation between depression and heavy social media use the most
vulnerable age gro is teenagers chelsey sellars reports. ### in a digitally growing world, it can be
hard to avoid social media and bright screens - but you might have t "if someone's on their
phone, they're not getting the physical activity that they would normally get. if they' waiting on
getting a text message or a phone call, then they're not going to sleep as well clinical social
worker melissa wilkes donahue says research shows correlation with social media use and
depression among young people "i think it's something that does effect everyone. teenagers,
they get it from both angles because they'r using it themselves but someone may be telling
them hey you need to moderate your social medi usage. but then they're coming home and
their parents are also doing the same thing a 2017 study from the association for psychological
science shows th depressive symptoms in 8th to 12th graders increased by 33 percent between
20 and 2015. suicide rates also went up for girls by 65 percent -- right around the time
smartphones were introduced. and watching the numbers may be contributing to the proble
"when kids are feeling like they're being compared to - 'oh well you have 100 followers but i
only have 20 then that is giving a metrics that they're feeling that they're being graded by. but
the best and easiest solution? cut it dow "we use technology to our advantage but everything
with moderation. just making sure, technolo isn't a bad thing but are we using it for the right
ways?or are we letting it kind of take over our lives.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 24 • 7:00 AM

B_SEP_WASH_102

Navy officials are investigating several suicides correspondent kevin McCORMICK from the
pentagon the Navy times is reporting the suicides are 4 sailors assigned to the aircraft carrier
George H.W. Bush two of the suicide on the same day this month though not occurred on the
carrier suicides have been increasing steadily in the Navy since 2016.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 24 • 8:00 AM

B_SEP_WASH_103

The U.S. Navy is investigating the suicide of crew members assigned to an aircraft carrier it's
now in virginia for repair years CBS tammy McCormick of the pentagon there have been 4
suicides among sailors assigned to the aircraft carrier George H.W. Bush 3 this month alone and
two of them in one day not occurred on the carrier itself this has prompted an investigation the
military officials tell the Navy times they have not linked to the deaths.

148

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 24 • 7:00 PM

B_SEP_WASH_104

the Navy is investigating a string of suicide among crew members of the aircraft carrier George
H.W. Bush CBS's jeff for gays reports the widow of 38 year-old Jayme Shelton says he was afraid
to reach out for help the ship's commanding officers said there's never any stigma for
repercussions from seeking help still Jennifer Shelton said her husband was afraid he would
lose his job if he revealed his illness as the father of 16 needed every dollar that he was making
sure U.S. concerns about taking medication for his depression because he needed his paycheck
edge in July Ford dealer from that ship also took his life there is an increasing problem with
suicides across the military 325 active duty members died by suicide in 2018 that is the highest
number.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 24 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_105

hundreds of high schoolers will show their support in the fight to end suicide tomorrow night.
In Washington state... suicide is the second leading cause of death for teens ages 15 to 19.
richland and hanford high schools are teaming up to host the annual take strides to end teen
suicide event. the walk started fo years ago by a group of students who wanted to shed more
light on the subject. ("it's not just a richland high school, hanford high school event. i want this
high school, hanford high school event. i want this to be a community event where everybody's
welcome and we want all students in the tricities to feel loved and supported and know that
suicide should never be an option.")option.") the walk will start at 6 p-m tomorrow night at fran
risch stadium. it is free to attend and there is no need to pre-register.
KOBI
Sep 24 • 6:30 AM

B_SEP_OREG_161

a new oregon law is set to give more than 38 million dollars to kids with specialized needs.vo
governor kate brown signed 'senate bill one'.... after 18 months of planning from the children
with youth and specialized needs work group. the funding will provide more mental health
services in schools that need them. it'll also go toward youth suicide prevention and
intervention... and therapeutic foster care for children with multiple... complex needs... as well
as other areas.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 24 • 6:03 AM

B_SEP_OREG_162

investigators looking into a tenth officer involved shooting in southern oregon in the last two
years. it happened when medford police responded to report os of a suicidal man. the man had
a knife and backed officers up to a fence. >>> two officers deployed a taser and one officer
deployed his firearm. the subject dropped the knife and fell to the ground. we did have

149

medford fire on scene. they immediately rendered aid. >>> the suspect did survive. the recent
shootings that involved police were across jackson, joes seen, and clamat counties.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 24 • 6:02 AM

B_SEP_OREG_163

officers using potentially deadly forced to stop a person in a mental health crisis is something all
too common half of the 10 officer involved shooting since 2018 have had the scenario played
out. >>> medford police released officer involved shooting over the weekend took place
yesterday morning for 10:00 on's robust circle. one officer fired his gun call came in as possibly
a suicidal man. no identified as stephen myers. they approached the officer and asked for him
to drop at. officer involved shooting which occurred prompted questions and many. news10
spoke with matt burke police today and take a special look. >> reporter: suicidal man shot in
the torso now in stable condition at for police department scott clawson crisis intervention
trained is something department implements for officers. officer treating of the 10th one within
jackson, and klamath county's purposes january 2019. 60% of the subjects shot died from the
injuries. >> we are really living and working through the model, that is to be crisis intervention
trained. to have, really fortunate in that our department specifically has trained all of our
officers and detectives. >> reporter: rick rollins manager outpatient and crisis services at the
health and human services says police on the front lines in the communities they serve.
knowing how to handle a situation as someone who may be mentally ill is beneficial for the
whole community. >> police are the front lines in the community dealing with many mental
illness issues. suicide risk, being one of those. the more trained, law enforcement we have, the
better our community is. be more safe and having better community law enforcement
response. we've had excellent response from a law enforcement agencies. >> reporter: versus
intervention training and plummeted within the medford police department, jackson county
district attorney office opposing deadly physical force plan. >> it sets parameters of when an
officer uses deadly physical force. how the investigation should be handled, who handles the
investigation. and deadly physical force plan defines what it means to be in and evolved officer.
what it means to be in and involved agency. rep plan to show transparency and as extra layer of
review in form of a board allowing an involved party to investigate the situation. >> since
generate 2018 six officer involved shootings and jackson county, two in klamath counties, six of
these were fatal with no officer fatalities. additionally, five of the subjects were armed with a
gun. three with a knife, it was yesterday situation, and to warn armed
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 24 • 12:38 PM

B_SEP_WASH_106

this afternoon, two good samaritans are being called heros for helping a young girl to safety.
this after her apparently suicidal dad jumped in front of a moving new york city subway holding
his daughter. kiro7 meg oliver brings us the story from new york. >> a miraculous sight on the
tracks of a new york subway station early monday morning. this 5-year-old girl with only minor
injuries. crawling op the tracks from underneath the southbound train. >> only thing i think
about is that the baby is still alive. >> a man jumped down to pull the girl to safety. >> she tell
150

me what happened to my ? i say don't look at your daddy, come to me. crawl like a puppy. >>
the father was holding his daughter's wrist when he intentionally jumped from the platform
just after 8:00 a.m.. the train was not able to stop in time and the father was killed. >> the man
that i sagum in had a little girl. the girl's mother said my little girl is in perfect condition thanks
to god and the angels that protected her. >> meg oliver, kiro7 news.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 23 • 9:47 PM

B_SEP_WASH_107

in January will be two years since the tragic death by suicide of Washington state University star
quarterback Tyler lewinsky over the weekend very special tailgate event before the football
game was all about number 3 almost currently johnson report March Saturday night's tailgate
event had tapped Greller House was a fundraiser for Alan Keyes hope the Foundation created
by his family after a toddler died January 28 team religious the most vibrant nice person I've
met just so happy about life and the dollar former was a cheerleader new tyler but had no idea
he was suffering with a deep depression she says she can understand though the pressure on
him you have to always be smiling you always have to be gone no matter what because you're
the face of the University You never know what's going on Alan Keyes hope Foundation is
nonprofit aimed at removing the stigma around mental illness especially for student athletes if
you or someone you know needs help with mental health crisis called 100 to 7 3 talk or you can
text the word home to 7 4 won 7.1
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 24 • 12:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_164

four service members of the united states they the i have have died from suicide. the suicides
which happen between july and september involved four sailor. george h.w. bush aircraft
carrier. although two took place on the same day, the suicides did not occur onboard the ship
and authorities have said there is nothing to indicate the ships are lunged. encouraging naylor
who needs help to seek that out. psychologists, chaplains are onboard at all times. the aircraft
carrier is stationed in norfolk. >>> e cigarette maker juul. the investigation was launched by the
u.s. attorney's office in northern california. the focus of the probe is unclear, and juul is facing
several federal and state investigations into its marketing. juul has not commented on any of
the investigations
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 24 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_108

suicide is a touchy subject that's hard to talk about. a local school is trying to change that by
starting a conversation. jasmine darakjy went to richland high school to find out how they plan
on putting an end to a suicide epidemic. the numbers are staggering. suicides since 2000 have
jumped nearly 50-percent among kids 15-to-19 years old. in the tri cities alone, there have been
twenty one suicides in the past five years under. among those 18 and richland high sophomore
giovanni belsito remembers a couple of his peers who died. i call it a crisis because a lot of
151

what's going on here, a lot of people don't understand four years ago, richland high started
take strides to end teen suicide- a walk created to help destigmatize and bring attention to
suicide prevention. this whole suicide prevention is pretty big. there are a lot of people here in
richland that are afraid of reaching out because they don't know if there's going to be
consequences or not this week its students are speaking up on the issue. every day of the week
richland high is wearing a different color to raise awareness on suicide prevention. as you can
see on this poster behind me, today was the color white-- which stands for kindness started
printing the suicide hotline and the local crisis response number on the back of student i-d
cards. richland high has also emphasized educating through workshops, trainings, and even its
morning announcements. but giovanni thinks there is still more room for change. having
groups...more support groups. more support groups for these kind of thoughts... but not just
suicidal, but like maybe just depression in general wednesday's walk will toward that change.
help take a step from richland jasmine darakjy nbc right now. both richland and hanford high
schools invite everyone to attend the "take strides to end teen suicide" event, which will start
at six p-m tomorrow at fran rish stadium. and please remember -- there is help available,
anytime you need it. if you or someone you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call
the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. u
canlso text 7-4- 1-7-4-1..
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 24 • 8:15 AM

B_SEP_WASH_109

a five-year old New York girl who was injured when her father jumped in front of a subway train
yesterday morning is now home with her mother Louie Sanchez is the girls cops father did this
thing I think to everybody everybody that help I think what really happened the tragedy the
basis for for condition thing got the father a 45 year-old fernando about blaine was killed after
leaping onto the subway tracks in the Bronx while holding his daughter in his arms the young
girl survived suffered minor injuries police call it an apparent suicide
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 24 • 9:00 AM

B_SEP_OREG_165

a tenth officer-involved shooting that happened within the last ten years. it happened on
sunday morning when police responded to reports of a suicidal man. the man had a knife and
backed officers up to a fence. that is when officers took action. >>> two officers deployed a
taser and one officer fired hiss firearm. the suspect dropped the knife. >> that suspect did
survivor. the other officer-involved shootings took place in jackson, Josephine
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 24 • 8:53 AM

B_SEP_OREG_166

officers using potentially deadly force to person in a mental health crisis.. is something that's all
too common. nearly half of the ten officer involved shootings in southern oregon since 2018
have had this scenerio play out. medford police releasing new information regarding an officer
152

involved shooting over the weekend...it happened sunday morning -- just before 10, on seroba
circle.two officers deployed their taser, one officer fired his gun.the call came in as a possibly
suicidal man -- he's now been identified as steven myers. police say myers approached the
officers with a knife -- and asked for him to drop.
KAPP (ABC)
Sep 25 • 6:05 AM

B_SEP_WASH_110

hundreds of high schoolers will show their support in the fight to end suicide tonight. in
washington state... suicide is the second leading cause of death for teens ages 15 to 19. richland
and hanford high schools are teaming up to host the annual take strides to end teen suicide
event. the walk started four years ago by a group of students who wanted to shed more light
on the subject. ("it's not just a richland high school, hanford high school event. i want this to be
a community event where everybody's welcome and we want all students in the tricities to feel
loved and supported and know that suicide should never be an option.")option.") the walk will
start at 6 p-m tonight at fran risch stadium. it is free to attend and there is no need to preregister.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 25 • 6:19 AM

B_SEP_WASH_111

the Navy is investigating a string of suicide involving sailors the reserving the U.S.S. George
H.W. Bush aircraft carrier 3 happened less than a week earlier this month including two on the
same day officials say the incident all happened off base locations they don't appear to be
connected and the sailors worked in different department.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 25 • 6:06 PM

B_SEP_OREG_167

a father in white city brought up a important topic of discussion, suicide and the impact it has
had on his own life. we hear his story and advice. >> i met with a veteran and father who
actually reached out to me to talk about the importance of awareness for suicide, unfortunately
that is how he lost his only son. he expressed the importance of shining light on the issue. >>
my son was 19 years old . at 19 he killed himself. there's not a day that i don't suffer for this. >>
a story that must be told. a veteran who lost his son to suicide, he said awareness needs to be
spread on this devastating statistic. in jackson county alone, the suicide rates are almost 3 times
the national average according to the united way jackson county. >> if you're at home and you
are that sad, please call someone . it's not an easy way out you don't just hurt yourself but the
people who love you and care about you. >> the health and human services has a free 24 hour
crisis line. the number is 541774 the number is 541-774-8201. there's a national crisis text line.
text 741741 any time for assistance. >> people need to realize just because they call the hotline
doesn't mean they will be locked up, you know? there are two heroes, the vets who gave us our
freedoms. >> even among veterans, suicide rates are high with around 20 veterans committing
suicide every day. according to the non-commissioned officers association, calling for help
153

could make a difference in changing these dark statistics. >> when someone calls for help, when
my son committed suicide, i had a couple of choices that i could have made but i called for help.
>> he says suicide is not the answer and it's something that can't be undone and its effects
ripple through communities, families, and individuals. >> it's okay to ask for help there's
nothing to be ashamed of but it's not the answer. it's one and done and it's over. >> if you
would like to learn more about the resources available, the united way of jackson county could
point you in the right direction come a additionally the health and human services available to
help tomorrow i will discuss more complex issue of suicide and depression in a special report.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 25 • 5:23 PM

B_SEP_WASH_112

Americans are making themselves sick. over politics. that is according to a survey from the
university of nebraska. 0% of the 800 people surveyed said politics are stressing them out. one
out of five reported losing sleep and 11% said their physical health has been affected. 20% said
friendships have been damaged over disagreements over politics. 4% admitted they had
suicidal thoughts because of politics. the poll was conducted in 2017.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 25 • 4:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_168

today, the " mind your mind project" kicked off in lane county. its a three-day conference
geared towards those who work in the mental health field. and its happening at the valley river
inn, in eugene. the primary focus is on mental health promotion rather than mental illness. it
features six keynote speakers, and over 20 workshops. covering topics likerauma, oppression,
stress impacts, and more. roger brubaker/ suicide prevention coordinator with lane county
public health says "most of the folks who are here work in education, social services or health
care in some way, but really even community members could benefit from this conference if
they see themselves as care givers or people that want to be involved in promoting the health
of the community in general"
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 25 • 5:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_169

work and finances are the top sources of stress for most people but new research shows many
americans say they are stressed out over politics and they believe it's affecting their mental and
physical health. >> reporter: cateland briggs says these politically tense times have an impact
on her. >> do politics stress you out? >> right now, yes. >> reporter: now new research from the
university of nebraska lincoln shows americans are making themselves sick over politics. >>
anything from stress to loss of sleep to loss of friendships to even suicide. >> reporter: 28% say
they're losing sleep. 38% say they're stressing out. >> one in four said they had lost a friend.
similar numbers sort of said that they had experienced problems at work or difficulty staying
away from political websites. >> researchers also say younger people who consider themselves
more liberal are more likely to report stress.
154

B_SEP_OREG_170

KTVL (CBS)
Sep 26 • 6:36 AM

a veteran and father, joseph sir, reached out to news10 to talk about the importance the
suicide awareness after he lost his 19- year-old son. news10 sammy shaktah spoke to him to
hear his story and advice for those struggling. >> my son was 19 years old. he was a lance
corporal in the marine corps, and at 19 he killed himself. now, there is not a date that i won't
suffer for this. >> reporter: a story must be told. joel setzer, a veteran who lost his son to
suicide comes as awareness needs to be spread about the devastating statistic. jackson county,
suicide rates are almost 3 times the national average , according to the united way jackson
county. >> so if you are that said, please call somebody. it's not an easy way out. you're not just
hurting yourself. you are hurting the people that love you, care about you. >> reporter: the
jackson county health and human services has a free 24 hour crisis line. the numbers 541-7748201. there's also a national text crisis light beta tech 741741 any time for assistance. >> people
need to realize that just because they call the hotline does not mean they are going to be
locked up, you know? there is two heroes. there is some bets. >> even among veterans, suicide
rates are high with around 20 veterans committing suicide every day according to the
noncommissioned officers association. calling for help can make a difference and changing the
stark statistics. >> the other hero is somebody who calls for help. you know, when my son
committed suicide, i had a couple choices i could've made, but i called for help either >>
reporter: setser says suicide is not the answer. it is something that can never be undone, and its
effects ripple through communities, families, and individuals. >> it's okay to ask for help. there's
nothing to be ashamed of, but suicide is not the answer because, i mean, it is one and done. it is
over. >> if you'd like to learn more about the resources available, the united way of jackson
county can point you in the right direction. additionally, jackson county health and human
services is also available to help. tonight on news10 at 6:00, we will cover the complex issue of
suicide and depression, a special report, "hope in darkness." keep up with the stories on
news10's facebook and twitter pages.
News Radio KEX
Sep 26 • 7:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_171

a new pentagon report finds there were 500 41 military deaths by suicide last year with nails
under 30 making up a case of suicide as an active-duty military are comparable to those in the
civilian population the Pentagon's Versailles reported suicides down the numbers suicides in
the National guard were hired at In the case for a few years now that's one reason the
pentagon says it's going to focus suicide Prevention efforts of the national guard and of enlisted
mails on active duty under the age of 30 that demographic make up the majority of suicides
among service members.

155

KTVL (CBS)
Sep 26 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_172

topic is suicide and depression can be difficult to discuss. many factors contribute to the
overwhelming feelings that may bring to those suffering. >> we took a look at how many people
are affected. and how to find hope in a dark time. >> reporter: jackson county has three times
the national average suicide rate. we can't, not tell that story. >> the fast-paced society, the
discussion of suicide, depression and anxiety can go unaddressed. >> is pretty high. to people in
oregon died by suicide every day. >> reporter: this is felt throughout the nation. the united way
of jackson county created a pilot called shadow to silence. we can talk about this. >> when we
launched it, people would come in the office, when they would close the door i knew what was
coming. their story was coming.'s >> reporter: more stories are told and it uncovers how many
people are affected by these tragedies. >> a student who was 14 years old who is part of a big
education initiative we have at united way, said to me, i don't care how many of us you get to
graduate, how about you keep us all alive. we have to make the connections available for
people, rather than them thinking this is the answer. that's the most important part to me. in
that moment of decision making, say there may be one more choice. and it could be this choice
instead. >> reporter: and i never connected world of social media , our human connection is so
much less. >> when you begin to talk about it, you begin to learn that it's not this big
clandestine secret anymore. it's a really hard topic. and it's one that has to be talk about. that i
think we can learn how to have hard conversations, and we can learn how to do better. >>
reporter: medical professionals find talking is a important first step to recovery. >> if the person
coming in for blood pressure and they want to lower their blood pressure, i will ask about
suicide and often the most common response is if i tell you this are you going to lock me up or
am i gonna have to go to the hospital. his that's not the case. we want people to talk about it.
>> reporter: the doctor says depression, anxiety and suicide can run in the family. it's important
to ask how someone is doing when they mention a family member lost their life to suicide. the
more comfortable people get about discussing this subject. cognitive therapy. >> cognitive will
cognitive behavioral therapy targets how we think. it can alter how we think. a lot of people are
assuming i'm just negative or this is just how the world is, it's actually depression and anxiety
that is causing our thoughts. >> the doctor recommends people going to therapy so they can
get off the medications when they feel the ready. patients are asked to commit six months to a
year for medication because it needs time to build up in the body. >> we are showing that we
will treat you as a team. one thing i want to let people know is that if you come into the clinic
and you tell your doctor, i think i'm having depression or the symptoms, they are going to listen
to you and be able to help you, just like they would any other thing. it's not as scary as it can be.
>> reporter: with your connection, newsstand. >> organ ranks number 15 in suicide rates in the
country according to the cdt. number one is montana. resources are the health and human
services and united way of jackson county. they have a 24 hour hotline. 541-774-8201.

156

KEZI (ABC)
Sep 26 • 6:14 PM

B_SEP_OREG_173

today, thousands of high school students got a glimpse of their futures... and hundreds of
organizations were on hand at the southern oregon trade careers expo to show them how to
realize their potential. a major event is coming to alton baker park to combat suicide...and you
can get involved. how you can add your support to the "out of darkness" walk...next. break
announcer says, "live locaca "out of the darkness" walk. more than 600 people plan to gather at
alton baker park this sunday for this year's "out of the darkness" walk. it's all to raise awareness
and money for suicide prevention. it's part of the american foundation for suicide prevention's
goal of reducing the annual suicide rate by 20 percent... in the next six years. organizers say the
event gives people a chance to know they are not alone. the money raised will go to research,
education, and advocacy projects i always tell people even if you're not a person who walks
come anyway because the event itself is so touching and so important to be able to connect
and see what it is other people are doing and feeling. you can sign up online.. until noon
tomorrow or register in person up until the walk starts... at 10:30 sunday morning. check-in
starts at nine. they're accepting donations until the end of the year.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 26 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_174

there's still time register for this weekend's "out of the darkness" walk... to raise awareness and
money for suicide prevention. the group wants to reduce the annual suicide rate by 20
percent... in the next six years. the walk is happening sunday at alton baker park in eugene.
organizers say more then 600 people have already registered online for this year’s walk. you
can sign up online... until noon tomorrow. we'll have some community resource for people who
might need them, and it's just a chance for people to see they are not alone in this and there
are other people going through the same thing that they are going through. you can register in
person up until the walk starts... at 10:30 sunday morning. you can check in starting at nine.
they're accepting donations until the end of the year.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 27 • 6:44 AM

B_SEP_OREG_175

looking ahead to this weekend's "out of the darkness" walk... to raise awareness and money for
suicide prevention. there's still time register for it. the group wants to reduce the annual suicide
rate by 20 percent... in the next six years. the walk is happening sunday at alton baker park in
eugene. organizers say more then 600 people have already registered online for this years walk.
you have until noon today to sign up online, and we have a link on our website. 10:47 suicide is
such a taboo subject still. people don't realize they are going through the same emotions same
feelings. maybe they have diffeent tips they can give you that have worked for them. or just
feeling like you are not alone...feeling like it's not your fault.". you can register in person up
until the walk starts... at 10:30 sunday morning. you can check in starting at nine. they're
accepting donations until the end of the year.
157

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 27 • 5:50 PM

B_SEP_WASH_113

a new report from the pentagon shows that suicide is on the rise among active duty members
of the military Washington Post national security reporter Dan Lamothe is covering the story
and talk about with come most time Butler how many service members were lost a suicide in
28 team and how does that compare to previous years raw numbers it was 541 for a recount
you're 28 18 3 ordered 25 that way that active duty the Pentagon particularly concerned not
just about the raw numbers because that that also affected by how large a note hair grows in a
given year the DEA toll rate of suicide among active duty members had climbed pretty steadily
over the last 5 years I guess I'm a little surprised that it's so much of the active military not
people who were in the military is that rate higher among active military that is 4 4 ex-military
there have been problems that the veterans community as well often that have been attributed
largely to whole older veterans that were the rate of suicide among older men in general with
tire and older population that take Baghdad has been a problem all user general profile of the
type of service members who commit suicide data and I think it contributes to the problem of
the military has put the crowded suicide if the city included primarily on the issue with nails and
primarily an issue for 30 on the crowd I am married to a White man and then the military has
no percentagewise had a much higher percentage of all great is one branch that more
susceptible to suicide another the army and the Marine Corps I think we have the largest is
using a highway.
News Radio KEX
Sep 27 • 7:21 AM

B_SEP_OREG_176

I think I don't know I can't make Um but Joe wasn't attempting to tie all into this which is a
front page story today ought to be military suicides highest in 5 years the rate of suicide among
military military troops increase to its highest level according to a Pentagon study released
yesterday Um there was an episode the this week on the U.S.S. S george Bush H.W. Bush and 3
suicides in a two day period creates not I missed that and I ana and wondered why now tell me
this of the year in be absolutely invaluable brilliant book tried by Sebastian younger he makes a
point that suicide rates among non-combat personnel are much higher in the military then
what I think a lot of civilians like to think of you know it's the guy was deployed 5 times got
PTSD or whatever hurry seen the horrors Wadhwa and he can't take it you can't fit back any
kills himself that sort of thing happens absolutely tragic and I like to spend my life trying to help
that not happen but suicide rate is much higher among people who just dealt with supplies and
stuff for stateside or maybe their country but they never never heard a bullet was a buyer
anything like so high you're among those people the younger did so why do you think that it's a
Yeah Yeah and it has to do with this stuff we've talked about a lot I'm black and the feeling of
belonging this and purposes and I'm milissa will leave it there that's the essence of but the
suicide rate his has spiked for young people when you're in the military not right it just it just
issues way up people are having sex are getting relationships are having kids they're killing
themselves at rates that nobody's ever seen in human history and are dying of drug overdoses
much much higher rates were part of that has to do with the drug of choice these days but part
158

of it I don't think juz some it is just a different way committing suicide I don't care enough right I
mean it's not like it is a guy who and occasionally air has been known to alter his consciousness
last night with a delicious glass wine Um it's not like you have to do or port opioid you can
smoke pot you can drink you can do a 100 different things I think people seek that obliteration
high for a reason we should be concerned about this topic.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 27 • 10:20 AM

B_SEP_WASH_114

report for the Pentagon shows suicide on the rise among active duty members of the military
covering this for the Washington Post national security reporter Dan lamar for joining me on
the co-owners I am Hey good morning how many service members rely costa suicide in 28 team
and how does that compare to previous years rubbed raw numbers it was 541 for a 4 County
you're 2018 3 entered 25 that with active duty the Pentagon particularly concerned not just
about the raw numbers of americans that that also affected by how large military grows in a
given year the DEA toll rate of suicide among active duty members has climbed pretty pretty
steadily over the last 5 years I guess I'm a little surprised that it's so much of the active military
not and people who were in the military it is that rate higher among active military that is 4 4 ex
military that there there have been problems in the different communities well often that have
been attributed largely to older veterans that were the rate of suicide among older men in
general is higher n then in the older population of about 60 Baghdad has been a problem while
the general profile of the type of service members who commit suicide he gave and I think it
contributes to the that the problem of the military has with the crowded suicide if the city gave
each primarily on the issue with males primarily an issue for 30 on the crowd and they primarily
White man and then the military has no percentagewise that much higher percentage of all
great is one branch that more susceptible to suicide that another the army and the Marine
Corps I think I have the largest used in knee last set of statistics and those are also the branches
that have the most the largest percentage of men in the largest percentage of people under 30
what if anything is the defense Department would help these soldiers and sailors in need so
they have really over the last 15 years put in place a number of intervention programs to
they've tried to talk about it differently tried to make it clear that he's opening defeat help it
and that people are encouraged to do so one of the things that they did yesterday and they
rolled up reported that they need to go back now and see which of those efforts I have worked
with clinton not aren't worth the read indefinitely some Irish statistics Dan thanks so much for
being with us Dan off the Washington Post he read his piece U.S. military suicide rate active
duty troops rises 5th consecutive year at Washington post dotcom.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 27 • 8:52 PM

B_SEP_WASH_115

the pentagon says suicides of active duty service members hit an all-time high in 28 teen the
defense Department report says 541 servicemembers committed suicide last year that's up
from 500 11th in 2017 the army the Navy and Marine Corps they all saw increases in suicides
suicides among members of the air force went down conversion therapy is in the spotlight in
159

salt Lake city community members got a chance to hear from several young people at a recent
panel including justin up late conversion therapy for the doesn't work it is hard for me
throughout that process side attempted suicide a psychiatrist also testified it was potentially
harmful but apparent claimed conversion therapy helped his son overcome his same-sex
desires and that since married and fathered 4 children.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 27 • 3:46 PM

B_SEP_WASH_116

a new report from the pentagon shows that suicide is on the rise among active duty members
of the military Washington Post national security reporter Dan Lamothe is covering the story
and spoke with almost time help or how many service members were lost a suicide in 28 team
and how does that compare to previous years or raw numbers was 541 for a recount you're 28
team 3 ordered 25 that with active duty Pentagon particularly concerned not just about the raw
numbers because that that also affected by how large military grows in a given year the DEA
toll rate of suicide among active duty members had a climbed pretty steadily over the last 5
years I guess I'm a little surprised that it's so much of the active military not and people who
war in the military it is that rate higher among active military than it is for all 4 ex-military there
have been problems that the veterans community as well often that have been attributed
largely to whole older veterans that were the rate of suicide among older men in general with
the tire and older population of Baghdad have been a problem many Wow is your general
profile of the type of service members who commit suicide gave and I think it contributes to the
problem of know what this guy did so excited to see included primarily on the issue with nails it
primarily an issue for the 30 and under crowd primarily White man and then the military has no
percentagewise that much higher percentage of all great is one branch that more susceptible to
suicide another the army and the Marine Corps I think I have the largest they use to hide in the
last set of statistics and those are also that the Briton that have the most large percentage of
men in the largest percentage of people under 30 what if anything is the defense Department
would help these soldiers and sailors in need so they have really over the last 15 years put in to
make a number of intervention programs they've tried to talk about it differently tried to make
it clear there is no need to seek help and that people are encouraged to do so one of the things
that they could yesterday event they rolled up his reported that they need to go back now and
see which of those efforts I have worked with Clinton not power it's worth a read and definitely
some staggering statistics.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Sep 26 • 9:03 PM

B_SEP_WASH_117

the pentagon Thursday released its annual report on military suicides this year's report is rates
have increased in the last 5 years and a 541 military deaths by suicide died in 2018 a parade of
24 points per 100000 servicemembers one number significantly larger than the 18.5 400000
from 5 years ago but then beyonce first comprehensive report military suicides also says the
suicide rates among service members are comparable rates abroad civilian population and

160

listed males under the age of 30 make up the majority of deaths by suicide in the military the
most common method of suicide was with personal firearms.
KMTR (NBC)
Sep 27 • 5:40 PM

B_SEP_OREG_177

military death by suicide surged to a record high depending on data showing an increase in the
number of the rate of suicide deaths on active serious -- active service members. the air force is
the only branch reporting a decrease with suicide also going into the reserves and national
guard totaling 500 81 across the military last year. up from 511 in 2017. an annual pentagon
report identifies the most accurate service numbers to be young enlisted men. the annual
eugene standout took place today at the wayne event center. it is an event that happens every
year to help give homeless veterans a chance to get off the street and provide them with the
services that they need. nbc 16 angelina dixon's with a veteran today and explains how the
event has changed his life.>> this manservant for deployments overseas and 15 years in the u.s.
air force. he goes by king silky. as a radio show host today on 99.1 fm in eugene. he says that
even after his service in the military. he still continues to serve homeless veterans. >> our
veterans come back from deployment. and we should be taking care of them. we should not
have to worry about mental illness. we shouldn't have to worry about addictions. or any kind of
service that would help help tell their stories and provide ways for them to get mental health
support.>> betty veterans have flooded the event center to take advantage of many services to
help them get back on their feet. services such as medical, dental, clothing, housing, job
improvement and more. these programs put on by organizations like the goodwill are just a few
that some veterans do not even know about. all because of one man who silky says laid the
foundation for veterans in eugene. as for the veterans who came out today silky is glad to help
them and direct them wherever they need to go. and he says if only this event was held more
often.>> it is growing. we want to get stabilized we can provide this service more than just once
a year. we would like the mayor's support. just to come and help our homeless veterans. >>
silky finds helpful to tell veterans his story, his struggle with ptsd. and how this event has
helped him after the military.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 27 • 6:37 AM

B_SEP_OREG_178

felt throughout the nation, united way of jackson county treated a suicide prevention pilot last
year called shattered the silence . reminding all people we can talk about this . >> when we
launched it, people would come into my office and when they would close my door i knew what
was coming. their story was coming. >> reporter: is more stories are told and covers how many
people are infected by these widespread tragedies . >> four years ago, a student who is 14
years old was part of a big education initiative we have here at united way, said to me, i don't
care how many of us you get to graduate, how about you keep us all alive? we have to make
the connections available for people rather than them thinking this is the answer. that is the
most important part to me, in that moment of decision making to say, you know there may be
one more choice. and it could be this choice instead. >> reporter: in a ever connected world of
161

social media, she says her human connection with each other is so much less . >> when you
begin to talk about it you begin to learn is not this big secret anymore. it is a really hard topic
and it is one that has to be talked about. but i think we can learn to have our conversations and
we can learn to do better. >> reporter: medical professionals say that talking is an important
first step to recovery. >> even if it is a person just coming in for blood pressure. they want to
lower their blood pressure i will ask about suicide and often the most common response i get is
if i tell you this are you going to lock me up? am i going to have to go to the hospital? that is not
the case. we want people to be talking about it. >> reporter: for some reason, depression,
anxiety and suicide can run in a family. it is very important to ask how someone is doing if they
mentioned that a family member lost their life to suicide. she is optimistic that it will get better.
medical professionals work to help those suffering through a variety of different ways, one of
them is cognitive behavioral therapy . >> targets the way we think with a lot of things that can
actually alter how we think. and a lot of people are just assuming i'm just negative for this is
how the world is. it is actually depression and anxiety causing those thoughts. >> reporter: she
highly recommends people going to therapy so they can get a chance to get off the medications
when they feel like they are ready. usually patients are asked to commit six months to a year on
their medication because of needs time to build up in the body. >> we are showing people that
it is not scary, we are going to treat you as a team. if you come into the clinic and you tell your
doctor that you're having these symptoms, they are going to listen to you and be able to help
you just like they would with any other thing. it is not as scary as it can be. >> reporter: with
your connection, news 10, good morning. >> oregon ranks number 15 in the highest suicide
rates in the country. number one is montana. >> some resources are the jackson county health
and human services and united way. a 24 hour hotline is available to help at 541 774 8201.
KTVL (CBS)
Sep 27 • 12:18 PM

B_SEP_OREG_179

people would come into my office and when they would close the door, i knew what was
coming. their story was coming.'s >> reporter: it uncovers how many people are affected by
these tragedies. >> four years ago a student who is 14 years old who is part of a big education
initiative we have it at the united way, said to me, i don't care how many of us you get to
graduate, how about you keep us all alive. >> we have to make the connections available for
people rather than them thinking this is the answer. that's the most important part to me. is
that in that moment of decision making, to say there may be one more choice. and it could be
this choice. instead. >> reporter: in and never connected world of social media, our human
connection is so much less. >> when you begin to talk about it you begin to learn that it's not
this big secret anymore. it's a really hard topic and is one that has to be talked about. but i think
we can learn how to have hard conversations and we can learn how to do better. is >> reporter:
talking is an important first step to recovery. >> even if the person is just coming in for light
pressure and they want to lower their blood pressure, i will ask about suicide. often the most
common response i get is will i be locked up or go to the hospital? that's not the case. we want
people to talk about it. >> for some reason depression, anxiety and suicide can run in a family.
is important to ask how someone is doing if they mention a family member lost their life to
suicide. she said she's optimistic things will get better the more comfortable people will get
162

about discussing this topic. mental health professionals help in a variety of ways. one of them is
cognitive behavioral therapy. >> it can alter how we think. a lot of people are just assuming, i'm
just negative or this is how the world is. it's actually depression and anxiety that is causing this.
>> the doctor recommends they go to therapy so they can get off medications when they feel
ready. they are asked to commit six months to a year to be on medications because it needs
time to build up in the body. >> we are showing that we will treat you as a team. this is not
scary. if you come into the clinic and you tell your doctor, i think i'm having depression, i'm
having the symptoms, they will listen to you and be able to help you, just like they would with
any other thing. it's not as scary as it can be. >> with your connection, news 10. >>> organ ranks
number 15 and highest suicide rates in the country according the cbc. number one is montana.
some local resources available are the jackson county health and human services, the united
way of jackson county. a 24-hour hotline is available at 541-774-8201.
News Radio KEX
Sep 27 • 7:26 AM

B_SEP_OREG_180

military suicides highest in 5 years the rate of suicide among military military troops increase to
its highest level according to a Pentagon study released yesterday Um there was an episode the
this week on the U.S.S. S george Bush H.W. Bush and 3 suicides in a two day period creates not I
missed that and I ana and wondered why now tell me this of the year in be absolutely
invaluable brilliant book tried by Sebastian younger he makes a point that suicide rates among
non combat personnel are much higher in the military then what I think a lot of civilians like to
think of you know it's the guy was deployed 5 times got PTSD or whatever hurry seen the
horrors Wadhwa and he can't take it you can't fit back any kills himself that sort of thing
happens absolutely tragic and I like to spend my life trying to help that not happen but suicide
rate is much higher among people who just dealt with supplies and stuff for stateside or maybe
their country but they never never heard a bullet was a buyer anything like so high you're
among those people the younger did so why do you think that it's a Yeah Yeah and it has to do
with this stuff we've talked about a lot I'm black and the feeling of belonging this and purposes
and I'm milissa will leave it there that's the essence of but the suicide rate his has spiked for
young people when you're in the military not right it just it just issues way up people are having
sex are getting relationships are having kids they're killing themselves at rates that nobody's
ever seen in human history and are dying of drug overdoses much much higher rates were part
of that has to do with the drug of choice these days but part of it I don't think juz some it is just
a different way committing suicide I don't care enough right I mean it's not like it is a guy who
and occasionally air has been known to alter his consciousness last night with a delicious glass
wine Um it's not like you have to do or port opioid you can smoke pot you can drink you can do
a 100 different things.

163

KDRV (ABC)
Sep 27 • 6:50 AM

B_SEP_OREG_181

the third annual empty shoe memorial was held in madison, wisconsin thursday. it honors
those who died by suicide across the state. each pair of shoes or boots resting outside the
capitol building represents a person who died by suicide in the past year. [529]shoes displayed
for suicide awareness-vo organizers of the yearly event say they chose this kind of memorial in
order to make a visual statement. they're trying to encourage lawmakers to support more
suicide intervention programs. but they also want everyone to be more compassionate ... and
to know it's okay to talk about problems. barb bigalke/executive director, center for suicide
awareness: "i think we need to have the awareness, we have to start talking more about suicide
prevention doesn't need to be scary. it's really just reaching out looking listening caring and if
you or anyone you know is having suicidal thoughts... you can contact the national suicide
prevention hot line right here on your screen. you can also send a text to the text line.
KBNZ
Sep 27 • 6:41 AM

B_SEP_OREG_182

"usa today" reports last year's military suicide rate spiked to its highest inlevel five years. the
army, navy, and marine corps all saw the rate of suicides go up among active duty troops. the
marines had the highest rate with 31.4 suicides per 100,000 marines. only the air force saw a
decrease. the number of suicides across the military increased from 511 in 2017 to i 541n 2018.
troops who died by suicide were mostly enlisted men under the age of 30.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Sep 28 • 9:15 PM

B_SEP_WASH_118

ninan: there's been an alming rise in the number of suicides among u.s. service men and
women. 325 active-duty members died by suicide in 2018. according to the department of
defense. that's highest number to date. and tonight the navy is investigating a series of suicides
among the crew of one aircraft carrier. here's jeff pegues. >> reporter: according to
investigators, on september 19, 38-year-old james shelton was found in his vehicle dead from
an apparent gunshot wound. 19-year-old ethan stuart took his life on the same day. five days
earlier, vincent forline's death was also ruled a suicide. all three men served on the aircraft
carrier uss "george h.w. bush" based in norfolk, virginia. james shelton's wife, jennifer, said her
husband suffered from depression. >> i know that it felt dark where he was, but he was just so
close to it getting better. >> reporter: the navy said the suicides, which didn't happen on the
ship, were not connected. the ship's commanding officer said, "there is never any stigma or
repercussion from seek help." still, jennifer shelton said her husband was afraid he'she'd lose
his job if he revealed his illness. >> as a father of six, he needed every dollar that he was
making. so he was concerned about taking medication for his depression because he needed
his paycheck. >> reporter: september is suicide prevention month, and the navy has
encouraged every sailor to perform one small act of kindness. >> you don't know who is
struggling, because often sailers can be struggling in silence. >> reporter: from a smile to saying
164

hello, the navy says it can save a life. jeff pegues, cbs news. >> ninan: and an important
reminder to everyone, whether you're in military or civilian, help is available. you can call the
national suicide prevention lifeline 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 1-800-273-8255.
KNDO (NBC)
Sep 28 • 6:05 PM

B_SEP_WASH_119

people from all ound the community gathered in kennewick this morning for the 12th annual
walkabout to talk about suicide prevention put on by the youth suicide prevention coalition..
the purpose of the event is to raise awareness for suicide prevention and help change the
stigma that surrounds mental health issues.. on average, two washington state youth die by
suicide every week, this is the second leading cause of death for youth ages 15 to 24 in the
state, officers with the kennewick police department also joined the walkot in support of the
event and please remember -- there is help available, anytime you need it. if you or someone
you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline.
that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 28 • 7:13 AM

B_SEP_OREG_183

reporter: every penny raised will go towards holding a student run suicide prevention team at
lincoln. they need $5000 to cover materials and training. >> there is not a clear path to how do
we fix the ex? kids who have these issues need individualized help. and we can help those kids
without the funding for dots but for these kids, making the treats was easy compared to how
many people feel discussing suicide. >> it often feels like people tiptoe around it. it is really
hard. and so i feel like if we can bring awareness, it would be helpful. >> reporter: according to
the Oregon health authority, suicide is the state's leading cause of death. also, the cdc notes
that Oregon suicide rates is 40% higher than the national average. here at Lincoln, support for
this effort is clear. several local bakeries donated some of what you see here. but most was
backed by these kids. they hope it makes a difference in those moments when life feels
anything but sweet. >> it is about healing and about helping and just loving our community, just
being there for each other. >>> thank you to kathy. we want to remind you about the national
suicide prevention lifeline number. it is 1-800-273-8255 on your screen.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Sep 28 • 8:33 AM

B_SEP_WASH_120

first responders run a higher risk of suicide because of the stresses of their job and the
disturbing things they see and experience on a daily basis. they are the ones who respond to
every car accident a house fire, they are there when we are at our worst. so, king 5 tells us that
first responders now want colleagues to know that they don't have to struggle alone. >> there
is hope and there is help. took sean thomas is the leader of first responder conferences who
pull together anyone working in public safety for honest discussions about the emotional and
physical tools of their profession. >> a lot of times we have speakers that share their own
165

personal stories and people come up to us and say, hey, that is me. i see myself in that person.
>>reporter: thomas who is also a deputy with the king county sheriff's office, travels the
country educating first responders and their spouses on the importance of mental health. >>
you start seeing or responding to all of these horrible scenes and calls and that is when things
are kicking in and start bothering you. >> one of the resources available is code for northwest, a
free confidential crisis response helpline for first responders and families. thomas is reducing
the stigma surrounding mental health is an ongoing effort. each suicide is a reminder of why it's
so important to recognize the trauma that is often hidden. >> we don't have enough of it but
we are moving in the right direction. >> that was ted land reporting. text the word help to 206448- 4545 and we will send you a code or a link to code for northwest, the crisis line and
network for first responders and families as well. we want to thank all of the first responders
for all they do from the bottom of our hearts here.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 29 • 5:57 PM

B_SEP_OREG_184

a large turnout in eugene for the fight against suicide...why attendees say the event isn't just a
fundraiser. - and - the fda issues a recall that may affect your dog at home. we find out which
brand regulators want you to avoid. k-val news at 6 starts right now. ## good evening and thank
you for joining us...i'm perry elyaderani a man died while police were taking him into custody
last night. >>> a man died while police were taking him into custody last night. salem police
arrested a man at the best little rowhouse before 10:00 last night for causing a disturbance and
trespassing. officers cinnamon struggled during arrest and once they got him into custody he
had a medical emergency. he was transported to the hospital where the man was announced
dead.>>> the douglas county sheriff’s office is commending its canine named grimm four of the
dogs work in apprehending 2 suspect in the same night last week. the sheriff’s office is
commending the canine for that work. he was first deployed, excuse me for the trouble he was
first applied thursday to track down a man who had multiple felony and misdemeanor
warrants, the canine found glide by the riverbank, later that evening he was called to track
down kenny edwards who the office says was violating a restraining order. the dog tracked
edwards to his hiding spot under a bed and helps deputies capture the suspect who they say
was with registered warrants for his arrest. >>> as suicide prevention month comes to an end
the american foundation of suicide prevention help one last walk and fundraiser in a
community effort to reduce suicide rates.>>> eyewear orange because i lost my brother, i wear
gold because i lost my father. i wear green because i myself struggle with a mental health
condition and suicidal ideation.>> representing those lost to suicide or struggling with suicidal
ideation. like sarah manny had a personal connection to sunday's walk. >> definitely for many
it's a day of sadness but also a day of feeling and there is that shared camaraderie of what we
are seeing that we are not alone. >> reporter: timothy says for him this walk is a victory, after
struggling for years he says he has found a community among the 750 people joining them
today.>> we have a problem and we can fix it. we can understand what are the signs and what
are the symptoms that will drive someone and placed them in this position.>> reporter: events
hoping to make that change, their motto is to save lives and bring hope to those affected by

166

suicide. >> it helps me keep moving forward in my life and realize i'm not alone and i have
support and love from lots of people.
KEZI (ABC)
Sep 29 • 5:05 PM

B_SEP_OREG_185

today the "out of the darkness" walk was held in eugene. the goal is to raise awareness and
money for suicide prevention. this is video from the walk last year. the group wants to reduce
the annual suicide rate by 20 percent... in the next 6 years. the walk was at alton baker park this
morning. organizers say that more than 600 people registered. they're accepting donations
until the end of the year.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 29 • 7:35 AM

B_SEP_WASH_121

there have been 4 suicides by members of the media sign of the aircraft carrier U.S.S. George
H.W. Bush and investigation is now underway CBS news correspondent tammy McCORMICK
report comes as the pentagon releases its annual report on military suicides there were 541
suicides among service members and 2018 that's not a significant change over the two years
before that military officials say it's hardly comforting the numbers are not moving in the right
direction a majority of suicides in males enlisted and under 30 the acting secretary of the army
calls the report disheartening.
KVAL (CBS)
Sep 29 • 6:00 PM

B_SEP_OREG_186

as suicide prevention month comes to an end the american foundation of suicide prevention
help one last walk and fundraiser in a community effort to reduce suicide rates.>>> eyewear
orange because i lost my brother, i wear gold because i lost my father. i wear green because i
myself struggle with a mental health condition and suicidal ideation.>> representing those lost
to suicide or struggling with suicidal ideation. like sarah manny had a personal connection to
sunday's walk. >> definitely for many it's a day of sadness but also a day of feeling and there is
that shared camaraderie of what we are seeing that we are not alone. >> reporter: timothy says
for him this walk is a victory, after struggling for years he says he has found a community
among the 750 people joining them today.>> we have a problem and we can fix it. we can
understand what are the signs and what are the symptoms that will drive someone and placed
them in this position.>> reporter: events hoping to make that change, their motto is to save
lives and bring hope to those affected by suicide. >> it helps me keep moving forward in my life
and realize i'm not alone and i have support and love from lots of people and an entire
community.>> reporter: the walk raise around $35,000, still expecting donations on their
website. a day of hope, healing and remembrance

167

KMTR (NBC)
Sep 29 • 9:33 PM

B_SEP_OREG_187

at suicide prevention month, to another the american foundation for suicide prevention of
eugene held one last walk in the fundraiser in a community effort to and suicide rates. >> i and
wearing orange because i lost my brother i lost go because i lost my father. i wear green
because i myself struggle with a mental health condition. >> each of these beads represent
those lost to suicide are struggling with suicidal ideation like ceremony had a personal
connection to the Sunday walk. >> definitely a for many a day of mourning and sadness but also
a day of healing. there is the shared camaraderie of seeing we are healing together, and we are
not alone. to timothy says for him the walk is a victory after struggling for years he says he has
found a community among the 750 people joining him today. >> we have a problem and we can
fix it. at least we can address it by understanding what are the signs? what are the symptoms?
that drive someone and place them in this position. >> events like the walk hoping to make the
change, the model? to save lives and bring hope to those affected by suicide. >> it helps me to
be able to keep moving forward in my life and realize i am not alone. i have support and love
from lots of people and an entire community touch for this. >> the walk race around $35,000.
they are still accepting the donations at their website.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Sep 30 • 2:30 PM

B_SEP_WASH_122

what's on your mind today but Hey good afternoon I and I put the bank would abandon the
change had cake and trying to get them protocols from the Lake city police Department and
they say they don't have any will what they want to find out I with the protocols are worse
huge effect cost for suicide calls like when somebody calls and says I'm mime planning to do
myself and when they get a call that there is somebody playing in the students' confidence O
when somebody else calls and says I think a person may be planning to commit suicide Right in
their 4th game sure it's what you do if somebody said that somebody doing cuban nation of
optimists what he do a good thing Yeah and what you do if their dad I law I don't think it's their
dad they have an investigation to determine whether the person died as a result of foul play or
as a result of their own hand I think that determination is made about the cops made about
medical examiner I think when dispatch whether it's no matter what city it's in would dispatch
gets a call from somebody was suicidal I think they they've probably differs from case to case to
case because if you're calling saying I think someone that I'm not with right now I assume
you're not talking about a situation where somebody says Hi I'm a mother and I think by 16
year-old son is in his bedroom he's about to commit suicide you're talking about somebody
who's not physically with the person who may try to write I won't so when you call and say I
think somebody might be planning to commit suicide Mays center not survive for a welfare
check at all that they do it on a case by case basis based on what information given is not going
to change each and every case want to tell me why you're curious it sounds like you have a
personal situation you know where this is happening I want to tell me what it is that southern
everybody listening to understand why you're curious I thank you for changing the Fed to
prevent a I'm not changing the subject us about suicide protocols I'm wondering why you're
168

calling it a suicide protocol right I know you're talking about almost like so was backing me and
we made a cough to suicide hotline about the medical profile in the United States about two 5
and under kirk aid you are calling about this specific case you're just calling about suicide
generically got so then I am I did text about put a packed show for public got texted about 6
o'clock I thought it was a joke it had hired the authors turn things you're in trouble I just need
to know you're okay I thought that was some token I didn't answer will why would you why
would you not see that is connected to your call them unify call device called dispatch and
sailed high what you know about the likelihood of suicide and you don't X I am best that she
could call I called and I called the National suicide hotline and they probably talk work with local
police agencies is he called the National suicide hotline their thinking either am somebody
about to commit suicide or somebody who knows a person like that they want the local police
calling check on the welfare check right and and then when somebody asks are you okay having
just called on suicide you decide not to tell the euro failed know that call was about to clock I
need you go but that email that talks about 6 okay so few hours later you're okay you're okay
well you're low I'm I'm working the clock and tell me what happened at about 11 30 Here's all
these cops that my door I Yeah because they think that Here's somebody who may have taken
her own life doesn't add up to you that way adds up to me that way as well you call us about
suicide generically they call your local police agency they send you a text you don't reply they
think he may have taken his own life and then the cops show up their listing the lars larson sure
so hazy alive alive and again in the afternoon.
KOBI
Sep 30 • 6:15 PM

B_SEP_OREG_188

the mother of an arizona teen who took his own life in klamath falls is taking steps to help
prevent other suicides. n-b-c-2's lyle ahrens has more on how an online chat room may have
played a role in the tragedy. paolla jordan says her son adrio romine was just 17 when he
committed suicide may 11th. "he had a lot to live for - he just finished his freshman year at
arizona state university. he was a pre-med student." "he was, by all appearances a bright young
man with a clear future - and so that makes it even that much more hard to take." jordan later
learned her son had been active in an online support group on 'reddit'. "it's called the suicide
watch". she's particularly concerned that an adult online may have played a role in her son's
death. "my son had very specific questions on how to kill himself - this person was an influence
on him, simply by giving him all this specific information on how to kill himself with a gun." "i
would like to think that if a caring person would have gotten ahold of this boy at the right time,
that they may have been able to convince him otherwise." klamath county district attorney eve
costello says it would be difficult to prosecute any adult that may have provoked adrio. "it is
considered manslaughter if you do actually take a substantial step towards assisting that person
in committing suicide - however, given case law, that substantial step is pretty close." costello
adds a 'free speech' argument only goes so far. "where you're actually causing a substantial risk
of death or serious physical injury, such as screaming 'fire' in a crowded movie theater." jordan
now wants lawmakers to put extra protections in place. "not to take away from my son's
wanting to take his life - it's another thing for an adult to talk to a minor child about suicide or
self harm." d-a costello agrees. "i think that reaching out to the legislature and creating
169

something that would be narrowly tailored enough to meet that would be beneficial." sheriff
chris kaber is also behind the effort. "there should be some accountability for an adult person
that encourages a minor person to harm themselves. so i'm trying to do whatever i can from my
position to encourage legislators to maybe consider this sort of an option." "the internet is
good, in parts - but there is really grave concerns that a lot of parents aren't aware of." in
klamath falls, lyle ahrens, nbc2 news. sheriff kaber says he's already contacted state senator
dennis linthicum, and representative e. werner reschke about sponsoring legislation to address
the issue. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help
available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 30 • 5:10 PM

B_SEP_OREG_189

tomorrow a firefighter to died while on medical leave will be laid to rest. michael zanefield was
the battalion chief and with the department for 25 years. he died by suicide earlier this month.
his family released a statement in part it says, else loved by many. and respected by all. this
tragedy does not define michael's commitment to his family, peers and community. instead, we
ask for this tragedy to redefine how mental health and first responders is looked at. starting at
11:30 tomorrow morning a procession from kelso to long view it starts at the fire station on
vine and you goes to new live vine church, we will stream the service tomorrow on web web
and the kgw mobile app. reminder if you need help or know someone who might need help the
suicide prevention hotline is available 4/7, we have the number on your screen now 1 l 8-000273-8255
KTVZ (NBC)
Sep 30 • 7:02 PM

B_SEP_OREG_190

new laws went into effect yesterday after the 20-19 legislative session. here are just a few of
those laws... senate bill 7-0-7 establishes the youth suicide intervention and prevention
advisory committee. the committee will advise the oregon health authority on suicide
prevention. senate bill 9-10 removes barriers to accessing naloxone and methadone. and
senate bill 10-08 is aimed at helping juveniles who have committed offenses get a second
chance at a productive life. among the elements, the bill requires judges to determine whether
children should be tried and sentenced as adults.
FM News 101 KXL
Sep 30 • 2:28 PM

B_SEP_OREG_191

when dispatch whether it's no matter what the city needs and would dispatch gets a call from
somebody who was suicidal I think they they probably differs from case to case to case because
if you're calling saying I think someone that I'm not with right now I assume you're not talking
about a situation where somebody says Hi I'm the mother and I think my 16 year-old son is in
his bedroom he's about to commit suicide you're talking about somebody who's not physically
170

with the person who may try to write I won't okay so when you call and say I think somebody
might be planned to commit suicide Mays center off survive for a welfare check at all that they
do it on a case-by-case basis based on what information they are given is not going to change
each and every case I want to tell me why you're curious it sounds like you have a personal
situation you know where this is happening Want to tell me what it is so so that everybody
listening to understand why you're curious Yeah thank you for changing the Fed to continue or
not things you saw get us about suicide protocols I'm wondering why you're calling us side
vertical right there and then you're talking about and this is why it's so was backing me and we
made a call to suicide hotline about the medical group medical profile in the United States
about she'll fight and other country aid you are calling about this specific case you're just calling
about suicide generically GOP's so the me than I am I don't text about tight control fan violence
it takes about 6 o'clock I thought it was so MU joke hide his officers something you're not in
trouble I just need to know you're okay I thought I was certain I hope it didn't answer will why
would you why would you not see that is connected to your call and unify call device called
dispatch and sailed high we knew about the likelihood of suicide and you don't explain in a bid
that it would you call I called and I called the National suicide hotline and they probably took a
work of local police agencies is he called national suicide hotline their thinking either pay and
somebody about to commit suicide or somebody who knows a person like that and they want
the local police call a check on the welfare check right and and then when somebody asks are
you okay having just called on suicide you decide not to tell the euro he made know that call
was about to clock in and made your bed that he made no net tax was about 6 okay so few
hours later your head your hand well you're right I'm working against the clock and don't tell
me what happened at about 11 30 Here's a these confidently tore Yeah because they think
figure somebody who may have taken her own life doesn't add up she that way Yes it's up to
me that way as well you call us about suicide generically they call your local police agency they
send you a text you don't reply they think he may have taken their own life and then the cops
show up your listing the lars larson show.
KLSR (FOX)
Sep 30 • 7:53 AM

B_SEP_OREG_192

suicide prevention month comes to an end. the american foundation of suicide prevention in
eugene held one last fundraiser in a community effort to reduce suicide rates. over 750 people
showed up in support on sunday and they walked about two miles at alton baker park. the af sp
was able to raise about $35,000 to help fund grant that help people with suicidal ideation.
people who were there were honoring those who they have loved and lost two suicide. they
are accepting donations through the rest of the year. if you want to donate, you can help
support the mental health programs in oregon and across the u.s. if you want to donate you
can go to their website.

171

KREM (CBS)
Sep 30 • 7:10 PM

B_SEP_WASH_123

this weekend university of south carolina fans painted the message hope never sinks right there
on their bodies fans showed up to support their quarterback ryan linsky after the state
newspaper there published an insensitive headline writing polanski hope sinks. that's a
particularly bad headline because the whole linsky has lost their son and wsu quarterback tyler
to suicide last january. it was only 21 years old. the family started to lewinsky's hope to fund
programs that will help educate advocate and destigmatize mental illness. the state newspaper
took to twitter to apologize but university leaders said they were appalled by the headline and
added an apology wasn't enough. well we are proud to air a special documentary tonight on
crime to address this spokane county's high rate of domestic violence.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 30 • 4:02 PM

B_SEP_OREG_193

there is a tomorrow for the firefighter who died on medical leave. he was the battalion chief
and had been with the battalion 25 years. he died by suicide earlier this month. his family
released a statement that says he was loved many and respected by all. this tragedy does not
define his commitment to his family, peers, and community. instead we ask for this tragedy to
reevaluate how mental health in first responders are look at. a procession will be held at 11:30
am. it goes to new life will ship church in longview. we will stream the service tomorrow on
kgw.com and the mobile app. >>> if you need help or know someone in need of help the
suicide prevention hotline is available 24-7.
KOBI
Sep 30 • 6:30 PM

B_SEP_OREG_194

in May... 17-year-old adrio romine committed suicide... after his mother says a person
influenced him online. now... she and the klamath county sheriff's department are contacting
legislators to prevent future tragedies. they want to see laws that protect young people... and
hold others accountable if they encourage someone to take their own life. if you or someone
you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the
national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Sep 30 • 6:13 PM

B_SEP_OREG_195

a cowlitz county firefighter misses a very serious story who died while on medical leave will be
laid to rest. michael zanefield was the cowlitz county battalion chief and had been with the
department 25 years. zanefield died by suicide earlier this month. his family released a
statement. in part it says, "he was loved by many and respected by all. this tragedy does not
define michael's commitment to his family, peers and community. instead we ask for this
tragedy to redefine how mental health in first responders is looked at." starting at 11:30
172

tomorrow morning there will be a procession from kelso to longview starting at the fire station
on vine street and goes to new life fellowship church avenue. >> if you or anyone you know
needs help or somebody to talk to, the suicide prevention hotline is available 24/7.
the number is 1-800-273-8255.

173

