KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 1 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_1

ninan: the connecticut man who died by suicide after being charged with his wife's murder left
behind a final note. in it, fotis dulos continued to proclaim his innocence. here's mark liverman.
>> reporter: the handwritten note starts with the words, "all, if you are reading this, i am no
more. i refuse to spend an hour more in jail for something i had nothing to do with." it's dated
january 28. that's the same day police found 52-year-old fotis dulos unresponsive in the garage
of his farmington, connecticut, home, sitting in his car with the engine running. officers found
him while performing a welfare check after dulos failed to show up for a bond hearing that
could have sent him back to prison, charged for the murder of his estranged wife, jennifer. she
disappeared last may after taking their five children to school. prosecutors say dulos killed
jennifer. her body has never been found. >> we categorically deny that mr. dulos had any
involvement in the disappearance of his wife, jennifer, and we defy the state to prove that she
is, in fact, dead. >> reporter: dulos was arrested in january after investigators found evidence
that included surveillance video of what appeared to be dulos and his former girlfriend,
michelle troconis, allegedly throwing away garbage bags. police say the recovered bags also
tested positive for jennifer's blood. troconis, along with dulos' former attorney and friend, kent
mawhinney, were also arrested in connection with the case. >> she has always been extremely
cooperative, and we'll have to deal with these charges in court. >> reporter: and in his note,
dulos also wrote that the other two people charged in this case had nothing to do with his
wife's disappearance. now, keep in mind, both of them face charges of conspiracy to commit
murder. michelle troconis is also accused of hindering the prosecution and tampering with
evidence.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 3 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_1

the shooting in grants pass wasn't the only shooting in the area on friday evening. as we
brought you as breaking news on newswatch 12 at 11 -- there was also one in central point.
the central point shooting happened in the area of live oak loop and mistletoe court. that
neighborhood is between the family fun center and the rogue valley airport. central point
police say that a woman called 9-1-1 saying she had been shot in a home in that neighborhood.
a man was also shot. both of the shooting victims were taken to the hospital. about 45 minutes
after the initial 9-1-1 call -- another 9-1-1 call was made. a man was found in his car in gold hill.
he was found dead -- in an apparent suicide. police later identified him as the suspected
shooter -- 53-year-old Donald westcott. police say there is no outstanding threat to the
community. if you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts or a mental health crisis -there are resources available. on your screen you can see the number for the national suicide

1

prevention hotline. Jackson county mental health also has resources available. in siskiyou
county -- a 17-year-old juvenile is facing several charges after a police pursuit yesterday.

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 3 • 8:45 PM

B_FEB_WASH_2

I don't know any other way to say this folks sorry to disappoint all of you but Jeffrey Epstein in
fact did kill himself I know that more than half of you now think he did not kill himself there's all
this evidence that points toward he the fact that he was murdered accept that actually none of
it really does the only thing that gets in the way of this whole idea is is just the evidence is
nothing more than that great a lot of speculation a a lot of books to be sold movies to be made
E discussions to be had on on on talkradio but the fact is that you would need this conspiracy I
don't know of a few dozen people and Here's the thing everyone always talks about him
transferring all his assets to his brother and potentially the data files and things like that and
then Let's Let's just use that one example we get the other ones later he's want so in fact that
was it protection move to keep him from being murdered and he was in fact murdered where is
it Where's the Mike the retaliatory leak of some of these videos or photos or any move we have
yet to see any of that anything at all and in then whose incentive is it for him to me if it the folks
who actually could control this process could also control all the guards in their could also
controlled the state pathologist who did the autopsy could actually control that person's
assistant and all the other people who handle the body bacon control all that healthy people off
it still has explained a couple of central things one the evidence the so so if you look at that 60
especially great example some of the evidence that was found in the in Indiana in the jail cell is
absolutely proof that he was murdered and other things that are found the so absolutely proof
that there's been this conspiracy but the thing is that they always say is like there were no
cameras they had access to the cell over limit unlimited hours spin that evening to all than the
why would any of the evidence the league why can't they just built a perfect I've had plenty of
time and apparently plenty of resources they wouldn't even need to do all this sloppy they
could have done something much more convincing there this doesn't make a whole this has not
from the very beginning he's a guy facing a lifetime you put her sexual assault these are the
type the people who kill themselves 3000 people last year killed themselves it kill themselves
imprisoned my 3000 you don't use as one of the if you're cheating on the task you don't answer
every question right when people don't know about you cheated you got it wrong on purpose
when you think about this Frank okay it's really quit I can't disagree with anything Mike said.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 3 • 9:15 AM

B_FEB_WASH_3

the Star-Spangled banner the national anthem is something that I'm looking forward and I
definitely Yeah I thought Wow this is it so personal in a way in which she thought about demi
Lovato said the reason I was so in her corner want to reduce so well is that she had a very
publicized bopping she's she's talked about her journey with depression or addiction she tried
2

to kill herself she tried to commit suicide and some people are questioning whether it would be
a good move for her to sing the national anthem because of her fragility and her mental health
and I think she just knocked down the path she was incredible it was phenomenal that was
another moment where are bar was kind of like Yeah she did such a good job there's also a
prop bet on how long it would take take her to sing brave and how many had sent notice for
elvers the over she did a great job of choose from Yeah Yeah about she was saying and task it's
you know what else she can break before the Super Bowl she tweeted out something she had
tweeted like 10 years ago she said I dreamed of one day singing the national anthem mom mall
she retweeted that 10 years ago I love that a good for her you know ways no win the national
Them is done the right way especially like sometimes you might sound different on TV as
opposed to being there but I always look at when cameras stand on the Pope players and you
see them for and it may even cry already got the ask clothes Yeah I don't get it as quote unite
Yes old mayor Fulop is fun right now you just did to that's how you know as good of a lot of
folks on the sideline of the as you see a bad moment seem like one free same national anthem
at a low as it at all he also had a couple players like a D not one of them I planned are so old
best commercial than you did you have one no he said she said more yet that could about away
I don't even know you have the advertised on I don't know talking about I don't know if you
guys heard the part in it's my pocket these guys yet you even hear that now off the model.
Portland's CW
Feb 3 • 9:00 AM

B_FEB_OREG_2

jesse: welcome to the show. so glad you're with us. let's get right to our top story. fotis dulos is
dead. the real estate developer accused of killing his estranged wife jennifer died in hospital
just two days after trying to take his own life. a suicide note was discovered next to his body
declaring his innocence. now his attorney says the fight is not over. he's determined to clear his
client's name. >> the family is adamant that his name be cleared. >> jesse: according to court
documents, fotis dulos left a suicide note for which he declared his innocence of the infamous
and heinous crimes. he was charged with the murder of his wife, jennifer, who banished eight
months ago. the 52-year-old was on house arrest when cops found him unresponsive in the
garage. he fatally poisoned himself using a hose connected to his car still spy. pear medics raced
to revive him and he was flown to a hospital in new york city. we spotted his grief stricken sister
smoking a cigarette outside the hospital. she flew in from greece to be by her brother sighed as
he was taken off life support. now his attorney, norm pettis, is filing an unusual motion to
proceed with a criminal trial. >> we intend to proceed on as if he were alive to vindicate him. >>
it's unprecedented and i can't find any legal authority to support this going forward. >> jesse:
and the woman spotted in the driveway as paramedics fought to resuscitate notice is anna
curry, who said to be his girlfriend. she lives in charlotte, north carolina, and works as a wealth
manager. the pair met while working together at a consulting firm. according to court
documents she paid nearly $150,000 in cash to help him make bond. in the documents she's
listed as his best friend. the 42-year-old burnett bears a striking resemblance to the suspect's
missing wife and mistress. his death will impact the cases of his ex-girlfriend and former
attorney. both are charged with conspiracy to commit murder. >> they can't flip, cooperate
with the state testify against dulos with the deal. >> jesse: in the meantime, jennifer's body has
3

never been found. and for more on this story, had to dailymail.com. and now an update on a
story that we've been following since it first broke. the mother of heidi broussard, the texas
woman who was murdered by her best friend and had her newborn kidnapped is speaking out
and calling the slaying premeditated. >> she premeditated all of this. it's something that she did
and i still, it's like come up me and my husband, we really want to know why. why would you
hurt a friend, you know, you're supposed to be her friend. why would you do that? we would
just like to know why. >> jesse: jen smith joins us now from our new york newsroom. jan? >>
jen: as heidi's mom said they're just looking for answers answers. she's revealing that magen
fieramusca actually contacted her asking about the police investigation despite being the one
who committed the murders. fieramusca texted and called tammy and wanted to know if police
were doing anything. she was ultimately charged with capital murder, kidnapping, and
tampering with evidence. heidi had three children including her newborn, who magen
kidnapped. her fiance, shane, is looking for donations from the public to help raise the three
children without their mother. >> jesse: jen smith in new york, thanks.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 3 • 9:35 AM

B_FEB_WASH_4

suspect suicide is now being given a break by police chief Carmen best Viciedo all revolves
around this internal investigation found that the officer had lied about the victim in the case
being critically injured in what was actually pretty much a minor fender Bender at the Seattle
Times reports the officers lie set off a whole chain of events the suspects became despondent
and ended up dying by suicide in her conclusion now chief Carmen best says it would be
speculative to leak be bruised That the officer used to get him to surrender to his eventual
suicide and she already suspended officer for 6 days without passion I thought the suspension a
punishment was fine now in which she did you this is pretty harsh to try to link suicide with this
officer in by the way I am I am okay I'm okay in the case of an investigation right there are times
where police officers were and our detectives they might tell rules or lie to try to get to the
bottom to get to the truth I'm not an investigator I don't know what his life was sometimes that
happens inside of the world Yeah in this case the officer was trying to get fees suspect turned
himself in and write and came up with this story in no way did he intend for him to kill himself
did he know he is going to be despondent suicide depression it's also complexity you cannot
blame one action for someone else's decision to dive with it with the deal was is this person he
hit a ransom cars right N he he ran and when police they came and said Hey this person hit
these cars someone got hurt there and there in the hospital from that and that stress is
allegedly would have strung along a protocol the person who writes us I think as we've
discussed you cannot as someone who has a sibling who died by suicide there's so much grief
and so much guilt that go along with that that you cannot you cannot say exactly why someone
there are things that lead up to that you cannot say exactly why that person decided at that
time to do about it push it to 6 days.

4

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 3 • 12:38 PM

B_FEB_WASH_5

killed and died by suicide last march. >> i can't believe every morning when i wake up that my
son is no longer on this planet because of a system of care that is nonsense. >> reporter: state
senator Steve O’Bannon has written a senate bill for those who cannot recognize they need
help. >> for those with a history of addiction, mental illness and involuntary hospitalizations,
the court will appoint a special guardian to make sure they get the care they need. the act also
provides dedicated housing and other services. >> reporter: at the bills first hearing today,
representatives of first responders spoke in support. >> i am strongly in support of this bill, not
because it will close the gap, but because at least it is a start. >> reporter: we met jerry clark
two years ago at a mental health facility. her son was still alive then. now, she is fighting to help
others. >> this bill is a baby step in the right direction, but it is something. >> reporter: if it
passes, the trial will be approved in king and Skokomish counties.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 3 • 5:23 PM

B_FEB_OREG_3

an oregon nonprofit just put out a new video... to make sure employees are getting help with
their mental health. "saif" is oregon's workers' compensation insurance company. they say if
employers foster an environment where mental health issues are talked about openly, workers
will feel more comfortable accessing help. everything from suicidal thoughts to feeling
overwhelmed, depression, loneliness, trauma, harassment, relationship issues, the death of a
loved one, coping with physical illness, addiction, family friction, anxiety or money problems. in
the video.. a manager brings up the number for help during a team meeting. 16 i used this
service a couple of months ago. i was in a bad spot. i gave them a call and i can honestly say i'm
a lot more engaged now with my family and i feel like i can manage work a lot better as well.
things are going a lot better for me. if anyone's interested in that number you can talk to me..
or you can call them directly. :33 the american psychiatric association says only one in three
people who need mental health help get it. and, only 3 to 5 percent of employees use free
employee programs. people worry about losing their jobs or the stigma that comes with
needing help. but, experts say the consequences are worse when people stay silent. and when
people get help, it leads to lower health care costs, improved productivity, less absenteeism,
and less turnover. you may have heard recent reports that red and processed meat isn't
harmful to your health -- but new research shows that isn't the case. the latest study looked at
nearly thirty thousand people. they found people who ate two servings of red or processed
meat a week... had a small, but significant risk of death. the risk also went up for cardiovascular
disease... and also included chicken. they didn't find any link with fish. for many -- pushups and
planks are the most dreaded part of the exercise routine, but researchers say they have major
benefits and you can do them anywhere. experts from harvard say push ups work almost every
muscle from your neck to toes. they even help tone those hard to strengthen muscles in your
back, hips, legs, and abs. planks provide a full body workout and are more beneficial than sit
ups or crunches when it comes to strengthening your core. remember to practice good form -by keeping your back flat and making sure your hips don't float towards the floor. they say to
5

start with 10 to 15 pushups and a 45 second plank every day. and then add to it. what was once
an empty field... is now a popular meeting place in cottage grove.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 3 • 10:40 AM

B_FEB_WASH_6

the death toll inside of Mississippi's prison has now climbed to 15 since the end of December
most of those deaths occurred at Parchman Prison with a long history of violence and squalid
conditions mississippi's new Republican governor Tate Reeves recently shut down and toy Asli
violent unit inside apartment and Mississippi lawmakers are introducing legislation to address
the problem but some say it's a little too late Jerry mitchell is the founder of the Mississippi
Center for investigative reporting he has reported extensively on conditions dating back to 2013
and Jerry us the Clarion-Ledger back then it was a phone call from an inmate that prompted
your investigation what that may tell you will eat unlike other inmates like come on I haven't
got letters from the different things like this he started he's telling for me the corruption was
going on inside that prison he was talking about Chretien officers opening doors so do that
certain inmates could be beaten he even killed and what happens is these prisons and
mississippi there so short-staffed like the vacancy rate in Mississippi's 50% mississippi also pays
its prison guards the lowest rate in the country I'm reading here than an entry level Byard
makes 26000 $ a year as you note that if the guard has a family they would actually be eligible
for food stamps so I can see why this is an argument as to why it's a tough job to recruit for can
talk a little bit about how this may have contributed to some of these recent inmate suicides in
killings we're seeing this free them all suicide part of the equation all I think one of these
suicides has taken place in solitary confinement and presents first tell you if you if you leave
someone in solitary confinement you need to check on the rarely the massive things happening
with the lack of correction officers they're not checking on inmates their required under you
know their own rules and regulations do that I think that's a big check for Mike 10 times a day
% something like that more than that even soon invoices so people or hang themselves or and
then and then and the other part of it with the murders is just he knows this violence you know
because if you hang out of the inmates are charged the gangs is showing most powerful and so
they come to dominate as so their own rules when they decide somebody needs to be killed
because for whatever reason they owe money her whatever the situation is they can carry out
without and sometimes appeared to be hated by Accor to carry out I know that one of the ones
up at Parchman there's video you can see me and that inmates Thankfully cheering curing the
other inmate to kill him and I hope my ash and nobody around official news they had a problem
on their hands corrections commissioner police shell Hall who resigned earlier this month
repeatedly asked the state legislature for more money this hire guards how lawmakers respond
hair they basically ignored her requests and he knows now the money isn't as tough as Another
answered her Hey you know I think she put this down to them she told them I was there I heard
myself and but nothing and this go-around there asking of our precious ask for 71 million
dollars the legislative committee joint legislative budget committee is actually recommending
cuts so this is what this is what's happening Unfortunately is is you know the there these crimes
but said nothing happens in and basically the Chancery as well know we have budget shortfalls
wheat we had and they also have these corporate tax cuts as well and it was last birdie so Lou
6

Yeah they just completed wok awaited them at the funding Jerry Mitchell founder of the
Mississippi Center for investigative reporting talking to us about Mississippi's underfunded
prisons where a recent spate of killings and suicides has prompted the governor to shut one
long troubled unit.
KMVU (FOX)
Feb 3 • 7:00 AM

B_FEB_OREG_4

central point police say they found their suspect late friday evening. but according to police the
suspect was quote "beyond help from what appeared to be an apparent suicide." "there's cops
down there's fire trucks. they're getting bullet proof vests on so i ran out there right away.
concerning." in an ally near sw pine and h street - grants pass police swarmed a home after
reports of a shooting. there police found the body of 37 year-old joshua wilson wright. "it's
just... i'm shocked that it's happening in our little town." nearby resident cherrish schmoll says
there are a few bad areas around the neighborhood. for the most part things are quiet - but this
was something different. "yeah they were out here a long time, very long time investigating it
and stuff. yeah it's a shocker for how close it is." police located the suspect saturday morning.
68 year old steve daniel cox was taken into custody and charged with second degree murder.
police havent released a motive. "you hear it out in the woods and stuff like that but not here in
town." police from both cities are not releasing any more information at this time. both cases
are still open investigations.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 4 • 4:20 PM

B_FEB_OREG_5

an oregon nonprofit just put out a new video... to make sure employees are getting help with
their mental health. "saif" is oregon's workers' compensation insurance company. they say if
employers foster an environment where mental health issues are talked about openly, workers
will feel more comfortable accessing help. from suicidal thoughts to feeling overwhelmed,
depression, loneliness, and trauma, or money problems. in the video.. a manager brings up the
number for help during a team meeting. 16 i used this service a couple of months ago. i was in a
bad spot. i gave them a call and i can honestly say i'm a lot more engaged now with my family
and i feel like i can manage work a lot better as well. things are going a lot better for me. if
anyone's interested in that number you can talk to me.. or you can call them directly. :33 the
american psychiatric association says only one in three people who need mental health help get
it. and, only 3 to 5 percent of employees use free employee programs. researchers are studying
when people start to become altruistic -- in other words -- when do we start helping people
even if it costs us something.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 4 • 3:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_7

a new study finds some neurological disorders linked to higher sui state side right CBS's Vicki
Barker Danish researchers write in the Journal of the American medical Association say people
7

suffering from neurological disorders have a 75% higher suicide rate than the general
population for those diagnosed with Huntington's disease or A.L.S. otherwise known as Lou
Gehrig's disease the suicide rate is 4 to 5 times higher.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Feb 4 • 4:38 PM

B_FEB_OREG_6

a new study shows having general anesthesia for a c section delivery may increase the risk of
post-partum depression. researchers from Columbia universe if i looked at more than 400,000 c
section births over the span of seven years. now just 8% of the women had general anesthesia
during their delivery. however, those women were 54% more likely to be hospitalized for
severe post-partum depression than those who had an epidural. they were also 90% more likely
to harm themselves ores have suicidal thoughts.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 4 • 9:35 AM

B_FEB_WASH_8

take away at the talk about research into brain injuries for athletes with Chris Nowinski CEO
and co-founder of the concussion legacy Foundation and co-founder of the Boston University's
CTE Center I asked him if there were specific pieces or stories out there that prompted players
to take the risks seriously there's no shortage of reformers hope players stories of caught the
attention of the various groups you you probably don't know that for a player today who
doesn't personally know somebody who's been diagnosed with the disease is now diagnose you
boil over a 100 cases of us Dave Duerson 2011 was a well-known player who caught a lot of
people's attention because he was so successful and choose and times who will create the nfl
playing for the Bears new York Giants in his mid 40s was on top of the world the board trustees
Motor name and then have a very steep and severe decline both his behavior becomes violent
with his wife and children his business dealings going into bankruptcy and he died by suicide at
age 15 shooting himself in the chest and leave a note asking for his brain to be studied because
that was a moment that really got everyone's attention because he was so respected how does
all this information and the dark side of football he will affect your experience of watching
football decide played football I was a defensive tackle at Harvard University and I can still
support a part of football especially those parts where it's adults who were informed of the
consequences are choosing to play the game but it's also difficult to watch knowing how many
former ethics struggling from those thousands of head and for me when I Stuck on the idea that
all of us chose to play that game when we were children literally everybody plays football starts
before there are 18 years old most people start before their 14 years old and we could not have
understood what we expose yourself to that agent so it's it's tough to watch but then again I'm
also a former deputy professional wrestler so I'm not against the Colts to a dangerous job if
they want to provide for the family but we do have to think about C.T.E. because this is a
disease that's entirely preventable this is a disease that if you do not get hit in the head you're
not gonna suffered this is a disease get one concussion you're not going to suffer it's the 6th
career resume brain trauma there were some expose yourself to that culture where people are
getting have had thousands of times a year as a matter of course is a better growing up as a
8

measure of the deep context sports and it turns out your brain doesn't like that and so we've
got to get on top of this quickly is your message getting through to parents said tooth to people
who might have kids to want play P week the message is getting out there in the league there's
no more heading in soccer before age 11 there's no check nice hockey so H 13 some sports of
of embrace this or pushing hard on football is still recruiting children fighters old play tackle and
we don't let them play tackle football before high school what's concerning about how the
information is getting out there that there's very clear evidence that the places of higher
education fewer kids are playing cut collision exports as children in places with lower education
that's happening so the most vulnerable kids getting coast more brain trauma the everybody
else that doesn't bode well for the future ability to think and to working to chief thanks to
Netflix series aaron hernandez is back music is there are demonstrate link between C.T.E. and
violence we haven't yet published a strong link between C.T.E. and violence that said in
participating in interviews with all of our families who've been diagnosed and see that data a lot
of families have a history of of a dad or son who was never violent and then became violent
over time it appeared to correlate with the progression of C.T.E. affecting parts of the great
brain that would affect violence you know you see the amid the left becomes effective which
controls fighters flight you see the for the frontal lobe become damaged and so you combine
the middle of the damage the follow December she might have paranoid violent impulsive
behaviors they usually would have not occurred so I believe that it's fair to say that in time the
link between C.T.E. and violent aggressive behavior will become stronger we just do the work I
was speaking with Chris Nowinski CEO and co-founder of the concussion legacy Foundation and
co-founder boss University cte center thank you so much for joining us.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 4 • 5:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_7

oregon senator ron wyden says he is in support of a national suicide prevention and mental
health crisis hotline -- three digit number. similar to 9-1-1 the proposed number would be 9-88. if anyone was having a mental health crisis or suicidal thoughts -- they could just call that
three digit number rather than the much longer 10-digit number. the bi partisan national
suicide hotline designation act was introduced today. this is after a recomedation by the f-c-c in
august. if you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts or a mental health crisis -- there
are resources available. on your screen you can see the number for the national suicide
prevention hotline. jackson county mental health also has resources available.
KFXO (FOX)
Feb 4 • 4:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_8

oregon senator ron wyden is co- sponsoring a bill for a suicide prevention and mental health
cris hotlin the bill is called the "national suicide hotlin designation act" and wou designate 9-8-8
as the hotline. the number would also include the veterans crisis line for veteran-specific
mental health suppor according to "breaking th silence," more than 8-hundre oregonians die by
suicide each year... and suicide rates across the count have increased since 2-thousand. ### if

9

you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicid or other mental health issues,
just click on 'let's talk' under the communit tab on ktvz dot com.
KTVZ (NBC)
Feb 4 • 5:09 PM

B_FEB_OREG_9

oregon senator ron wyden is co- sponsoring a bill for a suicide prevention, and mental health
crisis tl hoin e. il the ball is ce led th"n l ationae suicide hotlinde iosignat an act"ldnd wou
designate 9-8-8 as tlihe hot ne. n theumber would also include the veterans crisis line for
veteran-specific mental health support. di accor"bng to g reakinthe si " lence,hamore tndn 8hured oregonians die by suicide each year... and suicide rates across the country have increased
since 2-thousand. ### if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide or
other mental health issues, just click on 'let's talk' under the community tab on ktvz dot com.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 4 • 8:46 AM

B_FEB_WASH_9

They brought us and here is rachel belve was going dude curious up the story of a man who
decided he wants to just die 75 Yes very user for sale that's right you just climb Mount
Kilimanjaro in his late 50s his name is detailed data manual he's an oncologist bio at this is
divisive drove most of the University of Pennsylvania he just wrote a piece for the atlantic and
title the why I hope to die at 75 despite the fact that this bothers his children and the rest of his
family and his friends but he says by the time he is 75 people had a complete life he will see his
children grow up his grandchildren to a degree he will have achieved all the things he's wanted
to do in life and he believes that it is so down Hill or candy after 75 health wise men toll why is
that it's not worth it for him to live and now he's not saying that you will commit suicide or that
you will you know want to be involved in Some kind of doctor aided euthanasia but he says
when he reached that age he will no longer get colonoscopies if he has a heart attack he
doesn't want to be kept alive do not resuscitate directive Yes he doesn't want to be screened
for cancer and if he does get cancer doesn't want any he does want to give anything that will
prolong his life just things that will make his life more comfortable if something does happen to
him and his argument is and I actually agree with this he says there has been an increase in the
life expectancy but to a decrease in years without disease so he's saying that doctors have
made us live longer but those years are not productive and not necessarily healthy they are
years you might be suffering or kind of just very much a lump on ICE's and carat we've been
able to make people live longer but dies slower egg exactly and I read that that was very
shocking sentence my a guy plus trade know who he is he is rom Emmanuel brother and he's
been very I actually met him done a discussion with him he's flamed out with rom Emmanuel
and he was the mayor of Chicago he was President Obama’s one of his close advisers who's in
the White House is also a proponent of Obama care and so of course most of the cost of
healthcare system come in the last years of life so I can see exactly what he's basically living out
his philosophy here he's saying that we his brother or his brothers of that well I know he's there
to me that they seem to agree on this democracy the oncologist so he sees people in these last
days of life he is going on where we spend a huge amount of our health care money helping
10

people die slower and so I guess I'm not too surprised that that he would adopt the says his
own personal choice it's hard to say what you're going to be like when your ex age she know
and right now he's very healthy maybe 75 will be totally healthy so it seems almost kind of sad
that if he is perfectly healthy but that at age 76 gets cancer is like not dumb treat me I'm done
where some people could be treated with a year or two and then go back to being healthy
again I think it depends on how you feel I ruined my mom started declining she finally said you
know don't do anything more this is knows will remember when my dad got Colon cancer my
sister spent she lived there becky's so of all of us and the family she spent the most time with
she said the chemotherapy change his personality Yeah and for the youth what may be the next
year it bought him it wasn't a good year and so I think she would absolutely agree with this but I
know it's in the eye and an unusual case where this starts to get sticky is when governments
adopt a policy saying okay after 75 where the wanted or not we're not going to give you the
heart bypass we're not going to give you the we're hoping for this is worth any Mark Yeah I
mean you can go both ways because you hear the stories of someone being in a coma for years
they're just friends and family Calico and keeping them alive and you know we can know what
is going on inside that person but they wanted and that's all of these things get really sticking I
could see were more people his age will make that choice because if you've ever visited a
nursing home or were had a loved one who was in hospice care will access hospice care you go
pretty quickly because they're retreating but has been a test of the tubes were 3 months 4
months 5 months I don't think anybody wants to be in that situation he's saying most people
have the idea how to live forever and it's very American he said I could have been 75 years I
don't think any anybody wants to live that life for their sitting on a couch and they are just
feeling lethargic and nobody's coming to visit them I don't think anybody wants that but
because of the way our culture is we don't imagine that's going to be us we think no I want to
live tonight because I'm gonna be that sharp lady who's still making jokes.
FM News 101 KXL
Feb 4 • 3:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_10

a new study finds some neurological disorders linked to higher Suisse state side rights CBS's the
keeper Danish researchers write in the Journal of the American medical Association say people
suffering from neurological disorders have a 75% higher suicide rate than the general
population for those diagnosed with Huntington's disease or A.L.S. otherwise known as the
Gary X disease the suicide rate is 4 to 5 times higher.
FM News 101 KXL
Feb 4 • 7:20 AM

B_FEB_OREG_11

murder case heads into day 6 on trial is jeremy Christian man accused of stabbing to death two
passengers badly wounding a third of our green line train almost 3 years ago our Rosemary
reynolds has been in the courtroom every day so I'm expecting you heard more testimony that
really Yeah grabs people's attention Yeah passenger care Robinson was one of the people that
took the stand yesterday he said he and 5 other people Chase jeremy Christian over I 84
overpass two small street by prominent hospital he used his cellphone to get police to get there
11

with they were doing was watching christian who is a little bit and front of them maybe 10 feet
in front of them he was putting his shirt on and off and then he reached into his backpack and
pulled out a knife and so that got them pretty expired app but that time 3 police officers ended
up being in the same area they were called there officer and Johnson turned the situation with
christian as high risk he says police didn't know views will hurt other people and that was a
priority to keep everybody safe a lot of interaction was caught on video they posted it on
oregon lied I watched it went on and on and I ran from chairman Krishan with profanities and
and really confessions about how he's already stabbed many hopes are all dead I know and he
was yelling out there and then officer Johnson went to use a Taser which takes two different
units to work and it failed and a Christian said to him you don't tase me and word and so the
other officer with the A.R. 15 now have the obligation of keeping everybody safe include
including the other police officers has anybody made the A question in court his mental
capacity and maybe he was trying to do old suicide by a police officer thing I know not not to
suicide by police officers think Yes I think his mental state is constantly being challenged you
know they have to cover his head in the car because he was spitting at officers on top of going
on this wild branch in the car so they're trying to keep him you know sustain and in control ball
when he was out of control with like calling every now and then because there's so much
happening in the courtroom behind the scenes you always hear about your story so on that's
why we're doing this we appreciate your reporting for us thank you.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 4 • 5:26 PM

B_FEB_OREG_12

oregon senator ron wyden co-sponsoring a bill creating a new national suicide prevention
hotline. the bipartisan legislation would designate 988 as the number to call facing mental
health crises and considering suicide. wyden says it's a public health crisis and the step is crucial
to help save lives. in addition to creating 988, the bill would include a veterans' crisis line.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 5 • 6:31 AM

B_FEB_OREG_13

the medford police says, domestic violence cases have been declining in the last two years. this
year follows that downward trend. numbers have fallen since 2018. 600 calls were made in
2019 and 5300 cases were made in 2018. we have more. >>reporter: 2020 is following a
downward trend of domestic violence calls to bubble so far. >> we are on the decline. we did
not see it worse in other words we are not trending that way. most calls don't result in arrests.
there is a large amount of domestic violence occurring, as statistics only represent those who
call law enforcement. handling domestic violence situations required dedicated attention.
when it comes to domestic violence investigations, they are complicated cases. they are not
open and shut. you don't have a victim and suspect. various factors such as emotions and
finances and alcohol are added complications. elizabeth hull, a police officer, specializes in
domestic violence calls to calls are declining countywide, it is prevalent in everyday work. at
least once a shift we are called to a domestic violence call. it has been a huge step in addressing
that issue. we have created up program. it is a specific position that addresses domestic
12

violence. since we created that program, we have been on a decrease in service for calls for
domestic violence. >> developing information tells us, friday's shooting was a matter of
domestic violence. senator ron white sponsoring a bill that would create a new suicide
prevention hotline. the bipartisan legislation would designate 988 as the number for people to
call that are facing mental health crisis. suicide is a public health crisis and this step is crucial to
help save lives. in addition to creating 988, it would include a veteran crisis line. follow these
stories on our social media accounts.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 5 • 8:25 AM

B_FEB_OREG_14

oregon senator-- ron wyden is co-sponsoring a bill that would create a new national suicide
preventition hotline. the bi-partisan legislation would designate 9-8-8 as a number for people to
call that are facing mental health crisis and considering suicide. wyden says suicide is a public
health crisis and this step is crucial to help save lives. in addition to creating 9-8-8-- the bill
would also include a veterans crisis line.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 5 • 6:05 AM

B_FEB_OREG_15

Oregon senator Ron Wyden says he supports a national suicide prevention and mental health
crisis hotline -- three-digit number. the number would be 9-8-8. the bi-partisan national suicide
hotline designation act was introduced yesterday. this is after a recommendation by the f-c-c in
august. on your screen you can see the current number for the national suicide prevention
hotline. it's a longer number: 1-800-273-8255 this is available 24 hours a day.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 5 • 12:02 PM

B_FEB_OREG_16

Oregon senator Ron Wyden and his cosponsoring of a bill that would create a new national
suicide prevention hotline. the bipartisan legislation must designate 988 as a number for people
to call her facing mental health crisis and considering suicide. they say it's a suicide public
health crisis and this is crucial to help save lives in addition to creating it, the bill would also
include a veteran’s crisis line.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 5 • 10:04 PM

B_FEB_WASH_10

the Justice Department is investigating Mississippi troubled prison system following the deaths
of 15 inmates since December details frontiers to be elliot the Justice Department's civil rights
division says it will Examine conditions at for Mississippi presence including part in a state
penitentiary the focus will be on whether the Mississippi Department of Corrections adequately
protects prisoners from physical harm by other inmates and whether there's adequate suicide
Prevention and mental health care pressure has mounted on the state to stem a rash of deadly
13

violence and parents suicides a spokesperson for Republican governor Tate Reeves says they're
great for the Trump administration has taken a focused interested criminal Justice reform and
promised to work together
KUOW-FM (Radio)
B_FEB_WASH_11
Feb 6 • 8:23 AM
florida officials are worried about a relatively new passenger rail line bright-line is privately
owned rail service that operates trains between miami and West Palm Beach in two years more
than 40 people have been killed on the tracks and crossing the and that makes it the nation's
deadliest rail road Here's and paris greg allen from miami rival and operates between miami
and West Palm Beach florida as most densely populated communities many railroad crossings
have features designed to discourage motorists and pedestrians from trying to beat the train
including sets for Gates was walk all the flames but those aren't always enough along this
stretch in South florida the trains to be as fast 79 miles per hour not high-speed rail but still
much faster than the trains people have been used to seeing on these tracks the rail line has
been here more than a century apart the florida East coast railway in recent years until brightline used just by slower freight trains since bright line launched two years ago on average more
than one person month has been killed on the tracks and car on a bike or on foot analysis by
the Associated Press found that was the worst death rate per mile of any of the nation's
railroads bright line has responded with a public education campaign warning people to stay off
the tracks too many people take unnecessary chances by driving around the gates running
across the tracks at a recent news conference in court a bright-line focused on a group he said
make up a majority of the fatalities suicides and people using drugs 75% of the incidents we've
seen the results of suicide drugs it's an industrywide concern just doesn't affect right I'm effects
every railroad across the country suicides on train tracks or national problem but nowhere near
the 75% number cited by bright-line the U.S. Department of transportation study shows
suicides account for about 30% of all real for Coyotes accident report from the federal railroad
administration's website tribute only a handful of violence tell these two suicide the company
said it arrived at its higher number after conducting investigations that included analyzing
videos of the accidents film from a train Capps the real safety activists aren't convinced we have
blown it hired to do it but susan Neil was with alliance for safe trains a group advocating for
closer government regulation of the privately owned rail line believe it trained community
everywhere I have a problem with drug and alcohol addiction and human but not like meal
believes the reason the rail line leads the nation for tallies because a strange run so fast
through densely populated communities and lax safety features like pedestrian gates
pedestrian bridges and enough fencing her group supports a bill in Florida's legislature that
would allow the state Department of Transportation to enforce safety standards for rail lines
like bright line at a hearing in Tallahassee frontlines rusty Roberts said the company has been
working with local communities to identify problem areas were installed fencing and other
barriers but said doing so expensive that fencing and our cases of over 200000 dollars a mile
and so if you start regulating fencing in a blanket way it's very costly to the whereas to that
bright line currently working on a 4 billion $ expansion that will take the rail line from West
Palm Beach northwest Orlando the Cup he says too much regulation could threaten the project
the seeming to take cars off Florida's crowded roads.
14

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 6 • 7:48 AM

B_FEB_OREG_17

you're talking today with the pulitzer prize winning journalist Nicholas Kristof who also happens
to be a native Oregonian and his wife Cheryl would done will be along to their new book is
called tight group what about it is no action the best way to describe this history occurred just a
couple offenses from early on in the book because they write about he is that I people he rode
to school with on the bus every day in am Hill he said about one-fourth of the kids who rode
with Nick on the bus are dead from drugs suicide alcohol obesity reckless accidents and other
pathologies boy named Mike is dead from suicide after struggle with drugs steve from the
aftermath of a full heart motorcycle accident sent from depression obesity and heart attack
Jeffrey a daredevil car crash that league he goes on it ends this way of the two boys Nic walk to
the bus stop with each day Mike is homeless alcoholic living in a Park and Bobby is serving a life
sentence in prison for offenses so harrowing the family has cut him off this is this is the world
Nick kristof grew up and he still is part of his family still lives there they wanted to say it took
figure out what happened and and to find out why this happened and and also find out why this
is happening versions this all over do you have any answers for what happened the the broad
answer is that in health care criminal Justice and employment and wages in so many aspects of
society there used to be some version either of associate in terms of policy or more social
cohesion in so many ways they argue that's gone said of say that there's now a tight rope Yeah
really important conversation with Nicholas Kristof sure would done on think out loud at noon
today we'll see.
KMTR (NBC)
Feb 6 • 6:41 PM

B_FEB_OREG_18

reporter: veterans gathered for a special suicide prevention training. learned as a question to
save the life. 60 the rest of the question to persuade refer training. it will help them identify
someone at risk and how to help. >> are you going to harm is of? do you have less to kill
yourself? was the question is asked, the more direct, the more direct response. >> reporter: 18
veterans died by suicide every day. so, they are training vets to support each other. >> they
absolutely go from being such a well oiled machine to one single part, that is hard to function
like that. >> reporter: she wants her fellow veterans to understand they are not alone. >> when
you take people who are accountable for who they are and what they've done in life, it
becomes much harder to speak out. >> reporter: struggling with ptsd, five years ago, he was
homeless. isolating himself. >> it is kind of really is long download downward spiral. i was
aggressive, i was valid. >> reporter:'s message. >> there's tons of resources. matter of stepping
up and saying i need help. and that is the hardest thing. met another training spent the
summer. reporting in coos county, i'm lauren negrete. >>> the national suicide prevention
lifeline number is one 800-273

15

KVAL (CBS)
Feb 6 • 9:12 PM

B_FEB_OREG_19

suicide is the 10th leading cause any u.s. veterans are an average group. >> reporter: veterans
get the casino for a training and lunch for morning to ask a question to save a life. 60 veterans
took questions for preferred training. help them identify somebody at risk and how to help. >>
to harm yourself? do you have plans to kill yourself? was the question is asked, and more
direct. be more direct response. >> they are training vets to support each other. it's her
devotion like that >> take people accountable when they are with him down. it's harder to
speak out >> five years ago, he was homeless, isolating himself. >> it is kind of a long slow
downward spiral. aggressive. violent. tons of resources. a matter of stepping up and saying
look. i need help. that is the hardest thing. >> reporter: another training plans the summer.
reporting and chris county, am lauren agree. the wi-fi number is on your screen. >> if you like to
get involved the contact information is on our website.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 6 • 2:28 PM

B_FEB_WASH_12

a former prison worker who helped to danger Criminals to escape a prison in northern new
York state is now free Joyce Mitchell smuggling tools for Richard Matt and David Sweat who
broke out of a maximum security state prison in Dannemora 2015 Mitchell a former prison
tailor spent more than 4 years in prison herself for helping with their escape now she's free
from the Bedford Hills Correctional facility under supervision until June 2022 prisoners escape
led to a massive man hunt map being shot to death the story of the escape was featured in
Showtime's series not bring recording a string of prison deaths in Mississippi draws the
attention of federal investigators the Justice Department says it's opened a civil rights
investigation into the Mississippi prison system after the deaths of at least 15 inmates since
December the investigation will look into whether state corrections officials are adequately
protecting prisoners' from the physical harm and also into whether there are adequate health
care and suicide Prevention services some of the deaths happened during confrontations
between inmates some were suicides violence is a recurring issue in Mississippi prisons were
meant to guard jobs unfilled.
KMTR (NBC)
Feb 6 • 5:40 PM

B_FEB_OREG_20

reporter: 18 veterans died by suicide every day. so, they are training vets to support each other.
>> be absolutely going from such a very well-oiled machine to one single part. it is hard to like
that. >> reporter: she was her fellow veterans to understand they are not alone. >> when you
take people who are accountable for who they are and what they've done in life, it becomes
much harder to speak out. >> reporter: struggling with ptsd, five years ago, he was homeless.
isolating himself. it's kind of really a long slow downward spiral. i was aggressive, i was valid. >>
reporter: his message. >> there's tons of resources. it's a matter of stepping up and saying i
need help.
16

KLSR (FOX)
Feb 6 • 7:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_21

suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the united states, and veterans are an at-risk group.
our lauren negrete reports. (lauren negrete "veterans gathered at the mill casino for a special
suicide prevention training and lunch forum, learning to ask a question to save a life.") 60
veterans took the "question persuade refer" training. it will help them identify someone at risk,
and how to help.(will wasson "are you going to harm yourself, do you have plans to kill
yourself? once the question is asked, the more direct the question, the more direct the
response." ") wasson says 18 veterans die by suicide every day, so they're training vets to
support each other. ("they go from being such a well-oiled machine to one single part, it is hard
to function like that.") baily wants her fellow veterans to understand they're not alone.("when
you take people who are accountable for who they are and what they've done in life, it
becomes much harder for them to speak out.") struggling with p-t-s-d, dennis choquette says
five years ago he was homeless, isolating himself.("it's just a slow, downward spiral. i was
aggressive, i was violent") his message ..("there's tons of resources, it's a matter of stepping up
and saying 'i need help' and that's the hardest thing.") another training is planned this summer.
reporting in coos county, i'm lauren negrete. the national suicide prevention lifeline number is
on your screen. that's 1-800, 273- 8255. that's 1-800, 273- on your screen lifeline number is
suicide prevention the national lauren negrete. the national suicide prevention lifeline number
is on your screen. that's 1-800, 273- 8255.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 6 • 4:32 PM

B_FEB_OREG_22

the department of justice says it will investigate conditions at four prisons in mississippi. the
move comes after inmates said they fear for their lives because of conditions in so correctional
facilities. they described raw sewage on the floors -- no access to showers -- and gang violence
that's out of control. nine inmates have died in a little over a month at the state penitentiary in
parchman -- mostly from violence or suicide. the department's civil rights division will look into
whether inmates are protected from other prisoners -- and from suicide. investigators will also
look into southern mississippi correctional institute --- as well as central mississippi and
wilkinson county correctional facilities.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 6 • 7:49 AM

B_FEB_OREG_23

four mississippi state prisons are the focus of a civil rights investigation after a series of inmate
deaths. cbs news has been on top of this story since it broke. at least 15 people have died inside
state facilities since late december and as recently as last weekend. the probe will explore
whether prison officials have done enough to adequately protect inmates from physical harm,
the quality of mental health care and suicide prevention methods are also under care. >>> big
problem. >> it was a culmination of years of severe understaffing and neglect. >> we'll stay on
pit.
17

News Radio KEX
Feb 6 • 6:40 PM

B_FEB_OREG_24

PTSD Foundation America end he said Michael we got these veterans coming home from
combat there Sir remark combat tours and veterans ever had in the past they come home and
killing its and kill themselves in record numbers and if you just check ins did this program his
work eth he said Here's what you don't like it no government funding is not part of the
government the faith based it's all private donations alright and a curse him because once I
stepped on campus and once I saw these gaps was hurt the story can't walk away so let me tell
you something this is all the time I'm asked to do a lot with charities that I don't do because
can't hope this is my passion how one focus our energies so many You have done so much over
the years and if you know veterans in need they can call it's absolutely free it the phone line we
picked up by aid counselor at Dr. P who picked up less money he's been a rock where that guy
Yes some mice had a pistol in the mouth themselves who served in Iraq came home was a war
hero and then found themselves suicide and world turned upside down and this has been the
most meaningful thing we have done with the show and remo gotten involved in so many of
our friends we got them all if you are a veteran in the lead 8.7 7.7 PTSD which is 8 7 sense of
whom 7 78 71 I ask we had we have done a big Wow the world was turning over a new
audience so I asked David malls be the executive director of Campo to to join us with a couple
segments today David where we had you know we don't hear as much as we used to hear over
20 veterans a day were taking their own lives these these are combat veterans are we making a
dent what why is that not be talked about not being talked about because it's not a pleasant
subject and talk about so sudden nobody likes to hear that I certainly don't like to hear about it
of have veteran community it's it's a tough subject of a dark subject and frankly everybody is
mad about something and whatever happens in the news a day and dominate the news cycle
so we hear about celebrities and politicians and that's fine I understand it I get it but today
we're losing more than 20 every single day to their own hands source story and gas calling
every day the numbers continue to increase 7.7 on 7 PT Esty paint the picture for people sitting
at home what does that call look who is on the other end of the line when that car comes nt
you quite often as a family member is struggling and us they're watching their loved ones
trouble they don't know what to do and I started Googling what's going on PTSD and they
heard that term my husband's having trouble finding phone number no call us and they're
they're involved in they're completely come bleakly freaking out because well what isn't into
trouble who couldn't I don't mind mayors the flash backs the hyper anxiety you don't belong I
shouldn't have come home my Buddy didn't come home my shouldn't be here shouldn't be
allowed and a nice start self-medicating so they can get some sleep but some point in time and
then that just continues to increase and he starts pretty dark spiral downward Mills very very
quickly sometimes so what we do we do at that point oath if we can get 5 all ball with him
that's what we're trying to expand expand our outreach across the country who want to get to
where we can see them sure that we want talk to them use Skype technology saying like that
we actually put your eyeballs long long talked to help them understand Hey we've got a campus
full of guys who didn't exactly where you're at right this moment and they're in a better place
today because of this program and you don't believe he can get better so from now will believe
18

for you just was come along so Meanwhile the journey with him what's wrong with somebody
like a man from a professional perspective we're what what what is the problem the problem is
quite often the with PTSD use this they've rewired brain basically all been in combat there and
walk the streets doing kicking down doors and everything and a bag of trash on the side of the
road is a potential threat to themselves whether they're nobodies there serving with that child
and coming towards him it could be a Threat when they get home after and doing a freer there
bring water back of that trash on the side of rose just just trashed getting neighborhood it's not
a threat to you for your family and that rewiring doesn't trick take place and so everything's a
threat and it becomes impossible to believe that at some point and if you're anxious about
everything everybody and as a reminder we're talking about guys who signed it with a tour and
you know folks we we have parades for our war veterans we take great pride in their victories
the truth this while his guys hurt we'll talk to David malls you can't cope with PTSD Foundation
of America.
KVAL (CBS)
Feb 7 • 9:35 AM

B_FEB_OREG_25

suicide is the 10th leading cause of death and veterans are at an at-risk group. lauren negrete
reports. >> reporter: veterans gathered for space special lunch for them. learning to ask a
question to save life. 60 veterans to the question persuade preferred training. to help identify
someone at risk and how to help. >> to have lines to kill yourself? once the question is asked,
the more direct, the more direct the response. >> reporter: 18 veterans die by suicide every day
so they are training vets to support each other. >> they absolutely go from being such a well
oiled machine to one single part. it is hard to function like that. >> reporter: she wants her
fellow veterans to understand that they are not alone. >> when you take people accountable
for who they are and what they have done in life, it becomes harder to speak out. >> reporter:
struggling with ptsd, five years ago, he was homeless. isolating himself. >> it is this long, slow
downward spiral. i was aggressive and violent. >> reporter: his message, >> there are tons of
resources. it is a matter of stepping up and saying, i need help. that is the hardest thing. >>
reporter: another training is planned this summer. >> national suicide prevention is on your
screen. if you would like to get involved we posted contact information on our website.
KMTR (NBC)
Feb 7 • 6:39 PM

B_FEB_OREG_26

a local non-profit providing mental health services for young people and their families has
received a special gift. an anonymous donor is matching donations up to $10,000 for the elrod
center in eugene. >> it is tragedy turned opportunity for one family. came after the loss of the
cofounder’s family member. there working hard to offer mental health services. kassandra
gutierrez has more. >> reporter: in october 2016 my father in law rod took his life in albany.
at that moment we had a decision to make as a family what we were going to do with that
tragedy. by 2017, the elrod center which stands for empowering lives and reclaiming our
destiny was born along with the help of another community member that shared a similar
vision they help children and other young people suffering from emotional and social issues. >>
19

we treat every single client and family as if they were our only client. we look at every single
one and we evaluate and we see what kind of services, not just mental health but any
wraparound stuff. >> reporter: according to statistics found the mental health america
nationals webpage, organ ranks near the top of the list in mental health problems. elrod is
doing everything they can to battle that stat and start therapy at a younger age.
Fox 12 Plus
Feb 7 • 8:15 PM

B_FEB_OREG_27

it was a packed hearing room in Oregon’s capitol-- as a controversial bill moves through the
house. dozens were hoping to make their voices heard on the measure. it would require gun
owners to lock their weapons in a safe or room. and they would face penalties-- if unlocked
weapons are used in a violent act. fox 12's camila orti has reaction from both sides. camila's
intro: wrapped up about óó ago.. a nonstop stream of supporters and opponents making their
way to the microphone this afternoon. while some believe this is a common sense concept that
would save lives.. others think it would infringe on the rights and protections for gun
owners.(timeline code 439 rep janeen sollman: un violence in the united states is a public
health crisis (3))and representative janeen sollman testified friday that h-b 4005 could be part
of the solution.. at least here in Oregon. Herself along with representatives rachel prusak and
alissa keny-guyer are the chief sponsors of the bill- which has this packed hearing roomdivided.(elaine woods//against bill: 15:18:43 econds count when danger is present(1))(carol
manstrom//son died by suicide 31:02 (timeline code) teen suicide rates are continuing to rise
the house judiciary committee heard comments from dozens of people on the bill.. which
would require gun owners to put a trigger or cable lock on a gun áand have that firearm inside a
locked container or room when not in use.it also make gun owners liable for any harm done
with a gun not properly stored under the law.. or not reported missing within 72 hours.(elaine
woods//against bill 15:18:44 o unlock a container and then have to release a trigger lock or
cable lock when someone is trying to or has already gotten into our home is putting us in
danger (12) opponents say the restrictions would mean seconds lost in a life-threatening
situation. others dispute that argument with the existence of quick-access safes(tom
oonnor//supports bill: 15:24:05 hese types of safes can be opened in a matter of seconds.
(2))bill supporters, like carol manstrom, whose son died by suicide three years ago with an
unsecured gun, say the bill would save lives. (carol manstrom//son died by suicide: 31:03
(timeline code) if a loaded gun wasnt accessible to will, i believe he would be with us today(7)
some áopponents call the bill a one-size-fits-all approach.. which they say would only penalize
gun owners for crimes they didn commit.(aleks skarlatos: instead of punishing gun owners why
not increase punishment on criminals who use stolen guns.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Feb 7 • 5:07 PM

B_FEB_OREG_28

liz: in oregon's capitol there is a packed hearing room as a bill moves through the house. dozens
hoping to make their voices heard. fox 12 joins us in salem with reaction. >> reporter: the
hearing wrapped up about an hour ago. a nonstop stream of supporters and opponents making
20

their way to the microphone. some believe this is a commonsense concept that could save
lives, others think it would infringe on the rights and protections of gun owners. >> gun violence
in the unite states is a public health crisis. >> reporter: she testified that hb 4005 could be part
of the solution here in oregon. herself and other representatives are the chief sponsors of the
bill which has this packed hearing room divided. >> seconds count when danger is present. >>
teen suicide rates are continuing to rise. >> reporter: the house judiciary committee heard from
dozens which would require gun owners to put a trigger or cable lock on a gun and have it
inside a locked container or room when not in use. it would make gun owners liable for any
harm done with a gun not properly stored under the law or not reported missing within 72
hours. >> to unlock a container and release a lock when someone has gotten into our home is
putting us in danger. >> reporter: the restrictions would meantime lost in a life-threatening
situation. others dispute that argument. >> these types of safes canning opened in a matter of
seconds. >> this woman's son died by suicide. >> if a loaded gun was not accessible to will, i
believe he would be with us today. >> reporter: some say it's a one approach fits all. >> instead
of punishing gun owners, why not increase punishments on criminals who use stolen guns. >>
reporter: the next hearing scheduled for the bill is this coming wednesday. that's when the
committee would vote to move the bill forward or not.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Feb 7 • 6:34 PM

B_FEB_OREG_29

pete: it was a packed hearing room in oregon's capitol as a bill moves through the house.
dozens were hoping to make their voices heard on the measure. >> nora: it would require gun
owners to lock up weapons in a safe or room. they would face penalties if they were use in a
violent act. >> reporter: the hearing wrapped up just after 4:00. a nonstop stream of supporters
and opponents making their way to the microphone. while some believe it's common sense,
others think it infringes on the rights and protections for gun owners. >> gun violence is a public
health crisis. >> the representative testified that hb 4005 could be part of the solution. herself
along with other representatives are the chief sponsors of the bill which has this packed hearing
room divided. >> seconds count when danger is present. >> teen suicide rates are continuing to
rise. >> they heard comments from dozens of people which would require gun owners to put a
trigger or cable lock and have it inside a locked container or room. it would make gun owners
liable. >> to unlock a container, then release a trigger lock or cable lock when someone is trying
to or has already gotten into our home is putting us in danger. >> reporter: the restrictions
would meantime lost in a life threatening situationment others dispute that. >> these types of
safes can be open in a matter of seconds. >> bell supporters whose son died by suicide three
years ago with an unsecured gun say the bill would save lives. >> if a loaded gun was not
accessible to will, i believe he would be with us today. >> but some call it a one size fits all
approach which would penalize gun owners for crimes they didn't commit. >> instead of
increases fines on gun owners, why not increase it on criminals. >> reporter: the committee
could vote it forward or not.

21

KMTR (NBC)
Feb 7 • 11:13 PM

B_FEB_OREG_30

so suicide the 10th leading cause of death. veterans are at at risk group. >> reporter: veterans
gathered at the special suicide prevention training and lunch form. learning to ask a question to
save a life. 60 veterans took the question persuade referred training. it will help identify
someone at risk and how to help. >>> are you going to harm yourself? do you have plans to kill
yourself? the more direct the more direct the response.>> reporter: 18 veterans died by suicide
every day. so they are training vets to support each other. >>> they absolutely go from being
such a well-oiled machine to one single part. it is hard to function.>> reporter: bailey wants her
fellow veterans to understand they are not alone. >>> you take people accountable for who
they are and what they have done in life it becomes much harder to speak out.>> reporter:
struggling with ptsd in a said five years ago he was homeless. isolating himself. >>> it is a long
slow downward spiral. i was aggressive. >> reporter: his message >> there are tons of
resources. it is a matter of stepping up and saying i need help. that is the hardest thing. >>
reporter: another training is planned for the summer. >>> the national suicide prevention
lifeline number is one 800 273 talk. if you would like to get involved with your post the contact
information on our website. nbc16.com.
KMTR (NBC)
Feb 7 • 11:04 PM

B_FEB_OREG_31

a local nonprofit providing mental health services for young people and their families has
received a special gift. the donors matching donations up to $10,000 for the center in eugene. a
tragedy turned his opportunity for a local family and community partner. the center opened in
2017 after the loss of the cofounders family member. the center has working hard to offer
mental health services. cassandra has more on this mystery donation. october 2016 my fatherin-law took his life in albany. >>> at that moment we had a decision to make is a family. what
were we going to do with that tragedy? >> reporter: the elrod center empowering lives in
reclaiming our destiny was born. along with the help of another community member. they
shared a similar vision. they help children and young people were suffering from emotional and
social issues. >>> we treat every lient and family as if they were our our own. we evaluate. we
see what kind of services not just mental health but any wraparound stuff. >> reporter:
according to stats on mental health american national webpage oregon is the top of the list and
mental health problems. elrod is doing all they can to better that's that and start therapy at a
younger age. >>> getting involved with people in their formative years helps for people to
thrive in those situations and learn different techniques and different thought processes. >>
reporter: from the colored lls to the therapy dog everything has a purpose. >>> everybody that
walks into this place will feel safe. they feel like they can be vulnerable and they can take a look
at the heart pieces that they were scared to before. that was intentional. everything about this
place is 100% therapeutic. >> reporter: they are community funded and free to those in need of
services. >>> without your support in the community we cannot keep the elrod center afloat.
we have so many young people relying on us right now to give them hope. to give them an
expression.
22

Portland's CW
Feb 7 • 10:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_32

a lot of security at the oregon state capitol in salem today as lawmakers heard public opinion
about a proposed gun safety measure. it would penalize people who don't lock up their guns or
if their weapons are used in crimes or even suicides are lisa baylor reports. a warning outside
the capitol this afternoon knowing a gun control measure is a hot topic. bill sponsors say they're
trying to prevent kids from killing themselves and it's not just teens. one of those statistics was
a 6th grade boy in my own district. it was devastating to all involved. the first responders will
never forget the image of a young boy in his foot sea pajamas that took his own life that day
house bill 4,005 requires a gun to have either a trigger or cable lock we're be stored in a locked
container when not in use the gun is not secured and stolen and used to injure someone within
2 years that gun owner would be liable and could face fines. also the governor would have to
report within 3 days that they find out a weapon of theirs is lost or stolen. one of the sponsors
of the measure is a state lawmaker, who's also a nurse practitioner. >> the goal, the safe
storage bill is to change the behavior of the minority of gun owners who's careless actions lead
to death and injury of others. it is meant to be protection for the teen looking to commit
suicide. >> opponents though believe the measure is too restrictive. they argue gun storage
decisions are personal choice and that the legislation is intruding into gun owners homes. >> it
means literally that they're crying to say to you you need a cable act you need to act container,
you need something like that to take control that how are they going to know that bottom line
how are they going to know that without coming into the house. >> the committee will hear
more from the public before deciding next week whether to send the bill to the house floor for
a vote. lisa bay like koin 6 news.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 8 • 7:30 AM

B_FEB_OREG_33

developing this morning, a debate over gun safety. oregon state leaders heard about the new
gun safe storage bill proposal yesterday. the bill would require gun owners to secure their
firearms with a trigger or cable lock in a locked container or gun room. supporters argue it
would cut down on crime and youth suicide. others say storage and trigger locks can fall victim
to criminals. >> most of the weapons in the hands of the shooters and right now portland is
having an epidemic of shooting as you know, come from guns that have been stolen from
houses or taken from cars. >> this bill holds gun owners strictly liable for the misuses of guns
stolen from them even if they were locked up. it creates punishment if it's misused by anyone
for two years. >> the bill now heads back to the house judiciary committee for a work session.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 10 • 10:05 AM

B_FEB_OREG_34

new numbers from the centers for disease control and Prevention say the U.S. passed an
ominous milestones in 28 team for the first time 24th 1000 people died by firearm suicide and
23

America Jonathan Levinson reports the cdc takes more than a year to analyze the numbers the
2018 date it was just released and reflects the continued increase in firearm suicides that
started in 2006 Dr. Kathleen carlson is the Oregon Health & science University in Portland she
leave the gun violence as a public health issue initiative something that we really like to look at
social inequity and lack of hope and can't have upward mobility and Calif officiated with a lot of
interest in life carlson says having access to firearms is also a major contributor suicide account
for more than 60% of annual gun deaths taking homicides and suicides together an average of
109 people died each day in 2018 from gun violence for guns in America.
FM News 101 KXL
Feb 10 • 1:41 PM

B_FEB_OREG_35

we've got the mental health care but we can't make anybody take the health care so they have
to do it voluntarily and that means some of the sickest people won't do it what do you think
about where where you and I disagree on that well I'm pro-life for the first time in my life I have
a thing I don't get don't agree with you on the ground and it has a thing for Greeny I don't think
you can go back in history and get fully unite and fade and health care and mental health care
here how one person we didn't have the I Ma on the book can earn everything else where if
someone has a mental problem they got diagnosed they got they could get locked up for
however long the doctors and treatments for stop them from medication two-room therapy to
electric shock that we okay that's history we don't have that anymore should we have some of
that because the current system isn't working that's the problem the problem they're the when
the main implicated that and started going I was supposed to be like the left always think about
swapping tight thing we didn't like the limit he popped out and fight but when it comes and
alcohol the umbrella keep getting bigger and bigger and bigger too good for that purpose the
cracter I love smack groups and cracked and suddenly you have the problem that we can make
Not although I understand pam you say the umbrella bigger we have people living on the
streets for mentally ill but wait and we have people who were drug addicted and some of them
killed themselves and some of them kill or hurt other people that's the problem should we say
when you get to the point where you've been picked up by the cops 5 times in a 12 month
period the society has the right to force healthcare on you to either save your life or save the
person you might kill light more energy to anything now you can own it Hey pete King week
where you couldn't block someone a of that change about 15 years ago so so we know that
might want to overreach in history that was the case then it when vu a barrel and doing a what
where and the beads not locking up anyone pam implement tell you I thought I outlined this for
the previous caller and she seemed satisfied choose the naysayers well Here's what happens
pam year you you have an uncle who's living on the streets he's acting crazy he's threatening
people threatening to kill himself the police picked him up they've been picking up 4 more
times in a 12 month period the same kind of thing and eventually somebody says to judge your
honor this new law we've got because and Steve O'Ban the senator for Washington who we
need to consider him for mental health conservatorship for guardianship so the judge is okay
will send an investigator if you look through the whole file of all the things that your Uncle
Ralph has been doing and look through it and maybe even get a chance to see Uncle Ralph in
custody at some point he goes back to the judge says there right he's got a mental health
24

problems they are treatable according to the experts but we can't we can get him to do it on his
own I think we should put him in a guard a conservatorship urged executor shipper couldn't
one of those forms legal way so the judge shows okay we'll have a hearing on it we'll hear what
she had to say if somebody was struck from the ralph and sailed around fine on the streets just
leave them alone that you have the hearing and then the judge says I'm an order ralph into
treatment and I will decide the initial course of treatment should be whatever two months 3
months 6 months and then if he's doing better after a short period of time his doctor's report
back to us that he seems like he's got things on the fly he's Peyt taking his meds now he's he's
not behave in an average man he's not trying to take his own life he's not attacking people
while we've got to cut in treatment then done the judge says okay we'll let him go now fall
that's done in court and and young reporters to go to the court and and watch which reporters
do and and statistics gathered last year we picked up 57 people were in this situation we put all
50 young but 50 of them in treatment after 6 months most of them were out of treatment and
you know flying on an even keel and and and things got if we say will last they picked up 500
people and most of them didn't need treatment at all and the record shows that if you got
transparency to the public you should be able to guard against them just walking around
picking up there every conservative talk-show host in the northwest locking us all upsetting this
Larson a that Kirby Wilbur that John Carlson that bill Myer needs treatment and just locking
something some re-education camp I hear your fear but panel let me try a small version of this
song and so say Uncle Ralph one day they catch him and he's standing on the a rare overpass
right and is over over of the Lake and and it's very clear he's about to jump and officer manages
to stop him before he jumps should they intercede and say we will take you into custody
because you were about to take her own life or should they just say now he has a right to be
free to do whatever he wants he's not hurting anybody but himself the flood of jump if he
wants to which one would you vote for room And hard about hands and things that really hard
question them seriously snow led to jump or don't but you it's that simple our like I'm trying to
make here is that what you outlined in not that different from what we had that one occurring
am I worked so hard right but we also need to guard against those who abuse it and Bukit Arab
I totally agree with you but if you make it transparent any recourse to go before a judge I guess
you could have a judge go crazy safe last just lock everybody up but if the judge does that that's
news story and somebody will call the other called the Seattle times says Trapper the
Oregonian the register guard and say this judge is gone crazy is locking up everybody on the
stage for no good reason if that happens we will become aware of the very quickly back in just a
moment with your calls.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 9 • 11:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_36

an oregon nonprofit just put out a newá video... to make sure employees are getting help with
their mental health. "s-a-i-f" is oregon's workers' compensation insurance company. they say if
employers foster an environment where mental health issues are talked about openly, workers
will feel more comfortable getting help. from suicidal thoughts to feeling overwhelmed,
depression, loneliness, and trauma, or money problems. in the video.. a manager brings up the
number for help during a team meeting. 16 i used this service a couple of months ago. i was in a
25

bad spot. i gave them a call and i can honestly say i'm a lot more engaged now with my family
and I feel like i can manage work a lot better as well. things are going a lot better for me. if
anyone's interested in that number you can talk to me.. or you can call them directly. :33 the
american psychiatric association says only one in three people who need mental health help get
it. and, only 3 to 5 percent of employees use free employee programs.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 9 • 6:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_13

in eastern Afghanistan two American soldiers have been killed CBS news pentagon
correspondent kevin McCORMICK a statement from the U.S. military says two service members
were killed and 6 others wounded when a man in an Afghan army uniform opened fire with
machine guns on a combined U.S. Afghan force this is still under investigation and it isn't clear if
the gunman was an infiltrator or an actual member of the Afghan military 6 U.S. service
members have been killed in Afghanistan this year pilot and is reeling in the aftermath of the
country's worst mass shooting a gunman killed 26 people and was then killed himself CBS's
Roxanna of error police say sergeant major tackle pant Thoma began shooting rampage at a
military base they say he shot and injured another soldier and two others they say he then took
a gun and drove to the 21 law video posted online showed the gunman opening fire outside he
took selfies and livestream parts of the attack at one point saying I'm tired now and I can't
move my fingers anymore before his Facebook page was taken down.
KOBI
Feb 10 • 6:46 PM

B_FEB_OREG_37

regence is a partner in our in this together campaign in case people dont know, its a 2 year
campaign a community partnership around suicide prevention; why is this an important issue
for you and regence? well any type of behavioral health and mental health is really top of mind
right now when were talking to our members whether its with an employer or an individual and
so its very important for us to raise awareness around behavioral health, issues and
concerns.and so how do we deliver messaging and information around behavioral health? first
you can get some of those solutions when you call our customer service team they’ve all been
trained to help direct people to behavioral health or mental health tools and resources avaito
them whether its in their plan or in their community and also via tele-health theres
opportunities for people to access behavioral health as well. but in oregon 1 in 5 oregonians has
some at some point in their lives some type of behavioral health issue that they really just need
some help with and its as a good community citizen we feel that we need to lean in and help in
that space and help these individuals at their time of need.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 10 • 12:18 PM

B_FEB_OREG_38

a study of adolescent mental health find excessive use of smart phones and social media could
be linked to mental distress and suicide. research added toronto hospital encourages doctors,
26

parents and schools to help teenagers keep boundaries on their digital and interactions and
develop healthy social habits. >>> and for obese children mindfulness therapy including
meditation may be the key to weight loss. researchers tested the benefits of mindfulness
techniques on dozens of overweight children they found kids who use that therapy in addition
to calorie restricted diets or less stress and hungry and lose more weights.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 10 • 6:35 AM

B_FEB_WASH_14

one of the men arrested after a deadly shootout in downtown seattle is expected in court for
the first time in this case, jabal jackson is accused of shooting at two other men outside the
mcdonald's on third and pine, january 22nd, police say none of his bullets hit anyone, jackson is
facing gun charges, two other suspects are still in las vegas, we awaiting extradition to seattle
to face murder charges in this case. a lawsuit against the state child welfare program could
move forward today, the family of susan powell is suing child protective services thing the state
should have known her children were in danger, susan powell disappeared in 2009, three years
later her husband was ordered to undergo an evaluation and a lie detector test, that same
week he attacked and killed his sons and killed himself when he set his house on fire, the boys
grandfather said he called and warned cps two days before the murders. >> he was cornered,
and i was concerned for the safety of the children at the time, i made that known to the social
worker. >> a hearing is scheduled for today in pierce county, the report in tacoma.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 10 • 5:45 PM

B_FEB_OREG_39

o'donnell: a troubling new report today spells out what all that time on social media is doing to
our teenagers. it also outlines what parents can do to make sure their kids stay safe. here's
adriana diaz. >> reporter: the review of research confirms what many parents have long feared- social media use is linked with mental distress, self-harm, and even suicide. in fact, more than
two hours of social media use a day is associated with higher rates of depression and suicidal
thoughts in girls, and in one study, girls reported feeling negative after ten minutes of browsing
facebook. 17-year-old maya beahl has seen it firsthand. >> i become more isolated when i'm on
social media even though it's supposed to be a connector. it's honestly very isolating. >>
reporter: according to the article, kids who spend less time socializing in person are more
vulnerable. and easy access online to information about how to commit suicide increases risk,
too, something carol deeley knows too well. her 12-year-old son gabriel took his life just over a
year ago. >> kids can't get away from all this peer pressure, and i think it's just terrible. i would
not want to be a child right now. >> reporter: carol started an organization called gabriel's light
to promote the safe use of technology. now, researchers say parents should talk to their kids
about the risks of social media, but instead of banning it, they should limit screen time for
screen time their kids and for themselves to set a good example. norah. >> o'donnell: we all
need help with that. adriana, thank you.

27

AM 860
Feb 10 • 7:25 PM

B_FEB_OREG_40

jim Jones she is a modern day choose your own during the pro life but as long as she can take
the first step exact exactly right and I will thank you how you're right if those don't know jim
Jones I would call jonestown Yeah he was the leader of of these people called and he killed 8 or
900 people might make you a drink it's literally drink poison kool-aid and they all would drink
kool-aid down and died and then by the end though he ended up dead two but you'll notice he
didn't forget first and it's always what it is like we knew about murder-suicide other this is a
valid comparison I always said I'm going to commit suicide or died but if you're playing and
killing other people and killing yourself do the last the first italy because that would make the
world a better place this woman is advocating for people to stop it what we want the human
race to be extinct and she's in the human race that's as the clear sign she's crazy she's no less
crazy engine Jones was zero that I remember that Yeah I do and as the world was Charles we
saw pictures of it was nuts and and and you just couldn't wrap your brain around it but again I
will say this again if you're a leader recalled that things are your people leave all die to get some
sort of freedom lead the way diverse and then maybe we can save some lives because they're
not going to drink the kool-aid this is with us what is going on she's going to cool it it they've
not for one pags candidate.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 10 • 12:47 PM

B_FEB_WASH_15

it's a bill before the state legislature I think it is sensible idea should people who have been
incapacitated by mental illness have treatment forced on them I answer Yes I care about civil
liberties like anybody else but the folks behind this bill say we have families who have lost
somebody to suicide who has been in the system out of the system in the system out of the
system they get picked up on the streets there they're acting in a way it's dangerous to
themselves or others they put in for 24 hours 72 hours sometimes as much as week and then
they released again and if you ask the doctors is this person likely to go back into their mental
state whether dangerous to themselves or others the doj say Yeah they woke and we'll release
them and we won't pick them up again until the danger to themselves or others it is absolutely
crazy but this proposal would say if you've been taken into custody 5 times in 12 months and
you are mentally incapacitated by mental illness we'll force treatment on you I think this is
actually a game changer.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 10 • 12:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_41

New numbers from the centers for disease control and Prevention say the U.S. passed an
ominous milestones in 28 team for the first time 24th 1000 people died by fire arms suicide
with guns in America Jonathan Levinson reports the cdc takes more than a year to analyze
numbers the 2018 date it was just released and reflects the continued increase in firearm
suicides that started in 2006 Dr. Kathleen carlson is the Oregon Health & science University in
28

Portland she leave the gun violence as a public health issue initiative something that we really
like to look at social inequity and lack of hope in terms of upward mobility and Calif with I think
he did with a lot of interest in life carlson says having access to firearms is also a major
contributor suicide account for more than 60% of annual gun deaths taking homicides and
suicides together an average of 109 people died each day in 2018 from gun violence for guns in
America.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 10 • 7:40 PM

B_FEB_WASH_16

my guest is Michael Pollan who is written best-selling books about food and agriculture and
bought me and psychedelic drugs and as a because back kathleen lifelike psychedelic drugs has
an impact on the brain the book called caffeine how coffee and tea created the modern world
and not print book it's an audiobook and it's an audible original okay Zaina for about coffee for
right now tell us what's happening with psychedelics are you still I should explain for anointing
my guess is Michael Pollan and his new book is about caffeine bench his previous spoke was
about the history of second Doug drugs and new ways that they're being used and scientific
research including working with the terminally ill know to help them out kind of reconcile and
impending death mood so I'm I'm wondering if you still saw room you know using them for
personal benefit research purposes however you want to describe it Yeah so I'm following the
field closely I'm not using them now and I became so public about what is hang time and so that
I'm very careful not to right now since I've told the world you know I did use them it was about
the book project if it were legal know I think I would use them I think I can easily imagine every
year on my birthday having a psychedelic experience I think be a great way to kind of take stock
of where you are in your life and what you want to accomplish in whatever problems you're
doing I think will be really useful ritual but sadly no not yet Um a lot has happened since that
published a change your mind the research has been is really taking off there are several trial
giving suicide into depressed patients both in Europe and here others were getting started I'm
eating disorders which is very exciting it's it's the hardest psychiatric condition to treat there is
various basic science going on here I'm trying to figure out what House like those working mind
and a lot of really smart scientists I Are now devoting themselves to psychedelic research and
some very excited about that Meanwhile moving to approval the FDA the supervising these
trials of of suicide than for depression and for alcoholism and they're proud of MDMA or
ecstasy and for posttraumatic stress and within a few years it's very likely that both for those
substances will be medicines that a doctor could prescribe that's quite remarkable it's it's
moving along faster than I would have guessed.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 11 • 8:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_17

another suspect visitor part the death of the Pierce County deputy changing her plea to guilty
or from Cuomo's jeff coach Jill Ellis said Samantha Jones was one of 4 people that took part in a
2018 home invasion robert in the town of Fredriksen Kennedy daniel McCARTY was shot and
killed as he responded to the crime one of the suspects killed himself at the scene and the two
29

others have already been prosecuted even though Jones didn't pull the trigger deputy
prosecutor he went line says she was the leader of the group you have accomplished liability
that when you have something a bit dangerous there too emotional something that could
happen to he's been charged with murder and faces close to 30 years in prison when
sentenced.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 11 • 7:50 AM

B_FEB_OREG_42

in December Opal be published a story looking at how Oregon's two-year-old extreme risk
protection order law was being used it allows law enforcement and family to petition a court to
remove someone firearms we told you the story of a mother who asked a judge to take her
son's guns away but the son said he didn't want to be interviewed after the story aired he
decided he wanted to talk so guns in America is Jonathan Levinson sat down with josh Haggard
hear about his experience and from listeners this story discussed suicide in an interview with
josh Tiger moms I am she said Josh became depressed in late 2017 in February 2018 he shot
himself in the leg she said he confided that he had been trying to take his own life they had
petitioned a judge from Irbil the law allows responding to challenges order within 30 days but
he didn't understand that eventually josh convinced his mom to have the order lifted
somewhat save the system worked it removed his guns during a time of crisis but josh says his
experience was very different he told me that when he shot himself in the leg he was thinking
back on a particularly dramatic case his 14 years as a paramedic I quit drinking again and I just
had a really rough day and was having a nightmare about these the kids I dealt with this one
day long story short shot himself in the leg which there was no adding point I want to kill myself
for some reason I felt like I needed to hurt and so that's really where all this stuff began and
then after that it was just kind of like those of somebody did recognize that that you need it's
helped to feel those available to you and get access to them it was difficult because I feel like
nobody really ever explained answered I don't know what the things to look out for and mental
health and for even when I went to that like pretty nasty call nobody followed up and said they
should probably talk to counter some of some that effectively for like that 7 years the who
would the cops came and took your guns away in the middle of this crisis what was the impact
of that on the bigger picture it almost felt like it made everything so much worse what do you
guys talk about what you're doing and they were taken on your guns and they explained to me I
know that your mom say you're suicidal staff and I said okay but that's funny in you guys can
take and Here's where they all are the day after they had taken my guns but deputy should
have won and hand me a piece of paper like a sorry dude ago deliver this too Yeah I think it says
something about like my mom had gone untouched the judge some I was I didn't know
anything about any of this and so I lost it I was so mad were people listen to all during all of this
some of your mom was talking to other people and maybe it to people they know best to you
and your therapist and were either of those two people involved in these conversations at any
point know nobody had any point said can we talk to therapist like are you seeing a therapist
nobody asked I felt like the decisions were being made based on mental health with no mental
health providers involved was like a police officer judge my mom where the 3 that made this
decision the judge doesn't know me police officer doesn't know me and my mom is a person I
30

have a very hard relationship with one of the reasons the laws set up the way it is the only
people you live with or direct family can petition for them is because the problem that you
know outsiders who don't know you sort of intimately don't know the full picture.
KBNZ
Feb 11 • 6:55 AM

B_FEB_OREG_43

a troubling new report spells out what all that time on social media is doing to our teenagers. it
also outlines what parents can do to make sure their kids stay safe. >> rr:eporte the review of
research confirms anwhat my parents have long feared -- social media use is liitnked wh mental
discretion, self-harm, and even suicide. in fact, more than two hours of social media use a day is
associated with higher rates of depression and suicidal thoughts in girls. ne in o study, girls
reported fe neeling agativefter ten mi ofnutes browsing facebook. 17-year-old maya bell has
seen it firsthand. >> i become more isolated when i'm on social media. even though it's
supposed to be a like coronnect h, it'sy onestlve lary isoting. >> reporter: according to the
article, kids who spend less time socializing in person are more vulerable. and easys acceson
line to in rmfoation about how to commit suicide increases risk, too. something carol deely
knows too well. her 12-year-old son gabriel took his life just over a year ago. >> kids can't get
away from all this peer pressure. and i think it's just terrible. i would not o want t abehi cld right
now. >> reporter: carol started an organization called gabriel's light to promote the safe use of
technology. now parents should talk to their kids about the risks of social media, but instead of
banning it, they should limit screen time, both for their kids and themselves to set a good
example.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 11 • 12:58 PM

B_FEB_WASH_18

research finds more than two hours of social media use today's linked with higher rates of
depression and suicidal thoughts and girls have become more isolated one on social media 17
year-old mia bells sounded out even though it's supposed to be a good conductor its bonds and
very isolated boys vulnerable to you Carol D least 12 year-old took his life after online bullying I
think it's just terrible I would not want to be a child right now the advice don't ban but do limit
your teenagers time online and encourage more face-to-face social interaction.
News Radio KEX
Feb 11 • 1:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_44

the suspect in the deadly Bank stabbing be britain's Ben determined by a judge to be unfit for
trial the judge ordered Salvador Martinez Romero to be sent to the state hospital he'll be reevaluated in may martin as Romero's accused of killing racial British jet that red state as
wounding her daughter Debra Thompson during the robbery is accused of stabbing a man in
the parking lot when he stole the man's car he faces multiple charges including murder death
investigation in is underway in skept close to put 3 schools into lockdown an adult was found

31

dead the southwest 5th and Vine Street initial reports indicated is a suicide but the cause of
death has not been determined.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 11 • 2:30 PM

B_FEB_OREG_45

the Trump administration's /research funding for some federal agencies by over 170% recently
and studying and treating blast related tbi and military requires money staying brains
servicemembers traumatic brain injury you're committed suicide takes money and those words
courage you have your own connection to traumatic brain injuries you have a PHD in his silence
and suicide among special forces and has spent your career in brain and trauma care as a nurse
now was the researcher when why did you choose to specialize in brain injuries so I work does
am a trauma nurse specialist for the U.S. army as a civilian men in their early to 1000 and I
noticed I had soldiers coming back from iraq and afghanistan had really obvious coast
concussive sometimes and most of them are actually all that reported being exposed to blast
off and repetitively on their deployment and they were having significant personality changes
headaches him Merril this is your decision-making issue it's a function and I want to start after
sticker I decided to study traumatic brain injury in combat and then with life imitating art I hate
it has been my goal who was deployed to iraq hide an i.e.d. actually an ESPN explode under the
seat of his vehicle and so when he returned home I started to see the same symptoms of
traumatic brain injury and him that I'd seen in my busins and the research I was seeing and
graduate school and so in continuing education and entering academia becoming a professor
and a nurse eye test I work for special operations and began to study there are suicides because
those triple gold in the last couple years and the intersection between traumatic brain injury
and their side is very well established and right as I was republishing my initial findings I am
Michael committed suicide in 2019 I am very sorry to hear that story and you connect to his
taking his life with his TV guy I think it's impossible not to as then it as a scientist I would say
now you know that that's anecdotal and with with without any cause though data or heard a
longitudinal study you know about the scientist and he's saying I can make that connection but
as a clinician and as a spouse and as somebody who's worked in this field for over a decade I
think that connection is is concrete because he came back after his blast injury and he was
really never the same and the CDC actually just put out that a bigger risk factors for traumatic
brain injury is suicide and sometimes it can lie dormant and me take a decade or longer but the
tbi suicide are very very connected and I mean you're also a statement signs of TV guys Kate old
what exactly is a traumatic brain injury what happens in the brain that causes so it's very
different military populations because in sports or in a Motor vehicle accidents deep the force
against the tide is solitary in the military blast injuries are created by an air pressure wave that
is really really significant because the brain is sitting inside your goal and blast pressure wave
trouble through tips and actually Hugh years connections within the brain and very microscopic
level alls and this is bad noted in brain tissue Post mortem by Dr. Dan Pearl at the uniformed
services University and the best so he has a brain repository years the brain says soldiers found
multiple conflicts he also has a high ankle sprain I sent him there after Michael I had died and
they have found asked gently starring patterns in soldiers had blast exposure and then those
soldiers servicemembers committed suicide asked her what would those scoring tatters on the
32

brain show up on an MRI not necessarily there are some clinical guidelines recommend Katz
stands not necessarily M.R.I. S the cat scans to look for really specific physical injuries after a
traumatic brain injury but with quote unquote mild traumatic brain injury it's unlikely or very
rare to see Is something that really glaring from a blast injury did Michael acknowledge said he
likely had a physical a physical manifestation that was tbi and admit what among soldiers they
are they willing to acknowledge it I I think it's tough for a lot of soldiers I think it's really difficult
to acknowledge that something wrong maybe happening are and that an injury they walked
away from his acting as a fact you to decree that these injuries can and Michael instance him
you know he had a wife who had studied extensively and so he is he acknowledged that his
brain was injured however whom he worked in a classified environment study had a security
clearance and he with non-whites would not acknowledge the official me because he could lose
his career and even though the Department of defense issuers service members me they won't
lose any security clearances for seeking mental health treatment I know from my colleagues in
the military my own experience I it's a very real fear so to my knowledge medium I don't think
Michael really ever sought comprehensive treatment for that and that is the main reason why
aren't we divorced newt and 2013 Kate I know you and Michael Brody had children may I ask
other doing they're pretty tough girls they're doing really well and you know we've been very
very open and honest about mikes injuries and how they've processed and processes staff we
haven't had anything from them or try to sugarcoat anything you because this is not an issue
that you can sweep under the carpet or preach and that's there lawrence here is a work injury
he's had preceded that she so we handle it with a lot of humor and honesty and runs tears at
times and you know sometimes very angry and sometimes they don't understand and that's
about all out and everything that has gone on there is no right way right way to process it it's
something you have to walk through and there's no there's really no getting over it it's always
going to be there are it's just going to change and morph over time Cate Caplin is a professor
and nurse scientist at the University of Windsor Ontario.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 11 • 6:23 PM

B_FEB_WASH_19

reporter: parental support crucial. a recent study shows lgbtq youth who report having at least
one accepting adult were 40% less likely to report a suicide attempt in the past year >> this is
such a teaching moment. transgendered child and >> reporter: jody patterson is the mother of
a transgendered child and advocate for transgendered rights >> the first thing i tell parents is to
take a deep breath and listen really immerse yourself your child is in so you can be in the nbc
news. same world. >> reporter: an emotional journey for both parents and child.
KREM (CBS)
Feb 11 • 6:37 PM

B_FEB_WASH_20

a trio of cooney county sheriff's deputies are credited with saving the life of a suicidal woman at
lake court lane. the woman was getting ready to drive into the lake for a deputy passing by
spotted her car and then went to check on her county's taylor vital explains what happened
next. it reminds us why we signed up for the job. it can be something seemingly simple and
33

unexpected. in this case it was checking on a car in the early morning hours of january 30th a
car that didn't appear to be parked in the right spot and then talking to a female. the first
minute minute and a half of dealing with her we realized is more of a welfare check at that
point. deputies andrew mohawk and zack perry were driving by the mineral rich boat ramp on
wolf large bay bait when it happened they were going to a home alarm colin harrison when
they spotted a car that had driven through snowbird down a boat ramp and was just 20 feet
from the water inside a woman who had been going through a rough time. we found she was
very distraught she was crying. she was pretty emotional the deputy said the woman was sadly
straightforward according to the sheriff's office. the woman said her brother had recently
passed away. she was getting ready to drive into the lake. her safety kind of became a priority.
we just sat there and we listened to her. her issues and what she wanted to say. deputy tom
broughton eventually arrived on scene to the deputy's pointed out that part of their job is to
listen to people based on what this woman was saying. the deputies were concerned for her
safety because of that. they took the woman into custody and transported her to county health
so she could speak with a mental health professional. reminds us why we signed up for the job
and sounds you know cliche but i do this job so that i can help people and help my community.
the sheriff's office is applauding these deputies for preventing the woman from taking her life
in what could have without a doubt been a tragic day. it was an instance where training paid off
and the deputies say they were reassured and they chose the right career and in the long run
we help her out that night and hopefully she is doing better and hopefully she has gotten the
tools that she needed to better herself. taylor reporting well done to them right. yeah nice
work.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 11 • 10:50 AM

B_FEB_WASH_21

certainly the Democratic candidates have been talking about doing things to curb gun violence
but also words speeded mass shootings a more small-scale and pena death by suicide from
guns as far as actually motivating voters it's certainly more a single issue for a second
amendment activists there are certainly plenty of Republican and conservative voters who can
be driven in the polls but the specter a of a politician who might want to limit gun rights I think
about her said in terms of the Democratic side there's a feeling a huge amount of difference
between those two positions of the can it's gone presently aiming in the waning hours of those
of the primary here Um Joe Biden was zone invoking by Vermont senator Bernie Sanders took
against the brady bill to extend a liability protection to gun manufacturers sometime ago you
Sanders current position is that things need to be done by gun violence including you are
tightening and backed a new Hampshire we should say this is a state that has a Democratic
legislature Republican governor and the legislature succeed in passing new gun laws but they
don't make it to the books because Republican governor Chris noon we talked to him today be
toes them that you can go through the different laws but what is the sense of any new
legislation passing well in the governor's been pretty clear that in his in his words he's
comfortable with gun laws as they exist and you know it's interesting because when he ran for
the first time for governor twice 16 he suggested an openness to universal background checks
he's change his position on that and the first building he's won the first bill he signed as
34

governor was one that got rid of the permit requirement for concealed carry of firearms right
now anybody can carry a weapon concealed without needing approval of local law
enforcement which have been the offer some Congress supported by police Chiefs it last year
the governor vetoed 3 bills universal background checks a three-day waiting period on gun
purchases and probation on of guns on school property in need he issued a single veto message
that is densely new Hampshire as cold responsible gun ownership is one of the safest States in
the country therefore I we need no further limits on them are saying he's also said it won't
solve it won't prevent evil individual from doing harm instead he's no women and he's also
propose more money to school shooting front to bolster safety in schools but you are on the
gun fraud he's been he's been pretty clear that he likes and so there was the latest bill passed in
the House was the Reds like long now Wiese many States have this was passed nearly January it
would allow family members or law enforcement to petition a judge to temporarily remove
guns from someone who's deemed an immediate threat to themselves or others you what's the
debate about this here because in something like 90% of deaths by gun in the state about his
right arm by suicide we know both for family's and police I'm very much for this for that reason
but this was a race car and new Hampshire I think we have from think us news the 16th her
highest rate of suicide by state and needed to Tokyo's by a bomb I think they're all related mom
and we have an overtaxed mental health system in new Hampshire and that's another factor it
things you see this elusive process me the governor has not to my knowledge come right out
and said what he would do with this bill he's been pretty clear that he likes gun laws as they are
which it anyone who paid attention to the would breed is this will probably on the breakout so
he hasn't said whether he'll veto anything no way through anything else any gun legislation on
the horizon our this legislation just give up at a certain point won't be whether it's interesting
exit poll Does indicate that most new Hampshire people are probably more comfortable with
tighter gun laws we have certainly call to leave within the Republican party in the second then
activists there are numbers of mom whether or not their sway he is overstated you indicated
that you spending on the gun control side of the debate is exceeding spending on the gun right
side of the debate and you know I do wonder sometimes whether be consciousness of
politicians who lags behind the public on this one and no one politician a Republican state
senator.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 11 • 6:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_46

the they survived the battles of war only to face new ones at home. it's a troubling trend among
younger military veterans. >> younger veterans are nor likely to die by suicide than older vets.
how experts are trying to find out why and how to help. >> retired u.s. army combat engineer
patrick kimball was twice deployed to iraq to look for bombs. >> overseas for us was a whole
lot of bullets and bombs for 15 months. >> he says adjusting to post military life was difficult,
that adjustment was too much for many of hisful low soldiers to bear. >> i lost seven guys at
last count. they brought a loot of trauma with them. unfortunately in some cases it led to these
seven guys it take their own lives. >> over all new york has one of the lowest rates of veteran
suicide in the nation but new data shows deeply troubling data among young vet ains ages 18
to 34. the suicide rate among that age group more than doubled. >> an absolute shame on our
35

society that we have not been able to get arms around this epidemic. >> laura with the
veterans outreach center says suicide remains a major issue for all veteran age groups but
especially those who have served over the last two decades overseas. >> we have an entire
generation who have not known a day without war. >> organizations like the voc offer many
services but help doesn't always reach those who are struggling. she says there's many factors
contributing to the suicide epidemic like lack of stable housing and peer support. getting
veterans that help after they come home is a challenge. >> the operational tempo of the
military is so high and so intense, we have people coming home and having some real
challenges. >> veterans like kimball say one of the object stacks wills, being afraid to ask for
help. >> in some cases resources are there, in some cases they aren't there and in some cases
guys don't want to reach out because there's a stigma attached to the mental health side. >>
while combating the veteran suicide epidemic can be a community effort kimball says he wants
fellow veterans to step up who may be struggling with thoughts of suicide. it could help keep
vet republicans live once they come home. >> it's difficult to swallow when those guys come
home and we end up losing them anyway. >> that was tanner. if you or a loved one are in need
of help, please contact the national suicide prevention lifeline or visit the website.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 10 • 11:02 PM

B_FEB_OREG_47

reporter: social media use is linked with mental distress, self-harm and suicide. more than two
hours a day are linked to suicidal thoughts in girls. in one study girls reported of feeling changes
after seven minutes. >> i start feeling anxious after being on social media. even supposed to be
a connector, it's very lonely. >> kids can't get away from all this peer pressure. and i think it's
just terrible. i would not want to be a child right now. >> reporter: carol started an organization
called gabriel's life. parents should talk to their kid about the risks of social media. but instead
of banning it they should limit the timing on social media both for their children and
themselves.
KMVU (FOX)
Feb 11 • 1:10 AM

B_FEB_OREG_48

it's likely no surpise that a new study is confirming that too much time spent on
smartphones...or social media...may be bad for a teen's mental health. but how bad... is
troubling. canadian researchers reviewed numerous studies on the subject. they found an
association between excessive phone and social media use...with mental distress and suicidal
thoughts. the scientists cannot say that one causes the other...only that there was a possible
link.
KVAL (CBS)
Feb 12 • 12:21 PM

B_FEB_OREG_49

snapshot is launching a new tool aimed at improving users mental health. it is called here for
you. the new search tool will provide safety resources for mental health experts when users
36

search for topics like anxiety, depression, suicide, and even bullying. snapped at says it wants to
roll out the tool in the coming months.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Feb 12 • 4:43 PM

B_FEB_OREG_50

here's another reason to make sure the teens in your life are getting exercise. teens who sit too
much may be more prone to depression. researchers tracked the activity of over 4,000
adolescents. those who were most sedentary were 28%, more likely to be depressed by age 18
than their more active peers. just one extra hour of light activity a day like walking cut the risk
of depression by 10%. >>> snapchat is launching a new tool that it says can help people take
care of their mental health. it's called here for you. it offers resources for mental health experts
when users search for sensitive topics like depression, suicide. snapchat reaches 90 per of 13 to
24-year-olds.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 12 • 6:14 AM

B_FEB_WASH_22

more teenagers are dying by suicide and most of the time is by a family member's gun. threequarters of suicide deaths for kids 12 to 14 most of the time were by guns. they don't know why
the youth suicide rate is going up. but it is the second leading cause of death for people
between 12 to 24. >>> there are safety resources for mental health experts. snap chat said that
the advisors are on topics like anxiety, suicide and bullying. they had users that have access to
the tool. a full rollout will be this summer. there is always someone available to talk if you need
help. call the national suicide prevention lifeline. the number is there on your screen. you can
text talk, 7 741741
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Feb 12 • 5:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_51

the man accused of murdering 2 men and injuring another on the max train in 2017 says he will
not take the stand in his trial. jeremy christian though is no one to be pretty vocal. but now is
choosing to stay silent. >> linda jones standing by live outside the courthouse to explain what
went into this decision not to take the stand alina. >> well jeff and jennifer you know over the
course of this trial we've seen christian have outburst and even react to witnesses while they're
on the stand but now he says it's best to let his lawyers do the talking. >> view >> 3 days into
the defense's arguments german Christian says he won't take the stand, leaving doctors and old
friends to come to his defense and the time and a >> he >> was a gracious. another friend says
christians demeanor changed after he spent years in prison starting in 2002. witnesses brought
by prosecutors have testified several times about christian using hate speech targeting specific
racial and religious you know such these from. it is >> there's just something about him. he
seemed a little more angry despite doctors testifying that christian is on the autism spectrum.
>> prosecutors question if that's true. >> are you wear the times stations, joe is my very trace
so say all of people are you. it looks like and she's my so possibly is it your impression. exactly
37

he >> another psychologist wednesday bringing more insight into why christian has a reactive
personality. >> the allegations on drug you were control or compared him to be to death a
suicide. needy this stress environment, and supportive family and >> now this trial is scheduled
for a month, but we know that the defense is now officially done with witness testimonies
however tomorrow it sounds like they will be adding additional evidence in to this but again
they are done with witness testimony we do know that prosecutors plan to bring rebuttal
witnesses as well for the end of this week and we are learning that core is just out right now so
we'll have much more for you coming up at 6 and then of course when more evidence is put in
tomorrow reporting live in downtown portland joe's 0.68 it will be interesting to see what that
evidence is fully know we have much more coverage of the trial of jeremy christian online you
can find more information from today's testimony along with. >> witness testimony from the
last 2 weeks also you can listen to our podcast on the trial.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 12 • 11:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_23

according to research cited by teachers unions and gun control advocates school shooting drills
have made students any safer would be we think about well there was no research that said
they would that be I need right now we're in this moment in our nation's history where it's
really a huge worry we have and you know I've talked about in the past the much bigger
restructured this to the site released two school-age kids week a suicide that's probably
secured 800 students every 4 years if you are the only ones to lose their life to an active
shooter at the school so there was initial rush to get everybody ready for active shooter or it's
not cheap low probability event and so I don't think it was research that said it was helpful on
balance the company Roshen make money trying to fit for better schools for this event it clearly
raises anxiety kids it promotes the belief that guns are everywhere when in fact they're not in
our schools I'm not getting any alarming rate and the risk is so much greater on mental health
signed on active shooter side cannot fly and I'm pleased our state didn't go the full wave of
other States did I would strongly suggest the District poll away from anything it is an active
shooter drill with students in the building can train teachers on this a man that you What I think
is a national advocate groups are saying is trained teachers on how to prepare but there's little
or no value in training students and just to be clear what is at hand and that we are doing in our
state I mean so you said it it goes just short of that visit uniform across the state are different
districts are doing different things while districts are doing different things being only
uniformity that there's this sequence for this so you know you send every month they need to
have a role in their district so fired shells are very common you remember summer pre
announced in the summer or not there's definitely a earthquake drills and we do those at least
once a year many districts of multiple times here that's again a far bigger risk for us is a seismic
event and then there is the requirements the shelter-in-place drill and not trying to think can be
really different for some it's you know they announce it in advance kids know what it is they
may be elements of the situation outside the building and so we're on our own place we but
some of them heavy show turn the place to be a proxy for active shooter and again not a lot of
districts but some of them do that and I'm gone so far as to train teachers you know kind of a
how he's a battler a weapon against an active shooter and that's where there's just some of the
38

variability from district district that is the voice of Washington state superintendent of public
instruction Chris rate out here joining the G nurses show Chris so yesterday we talked to keep it
low who actually stopped the school shooter at Park rose high school down here in oregon this
is what he told us about the idea of teachers carrying guns you never thought of it as a teacher
he can laugh it off I have a gun on them hurt again cash in and multiple rooms across the at the
thought of that it is scary for me Chris when you think about teachers about them about arming
teachers well again they should not have weapons there's just no evidence that would be
helpful I'm only research we have that gun and said he if highly correlated with homicide
suicide.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 12 • 12:50 PM

B_FEB_WASH_24

Pope Francis said through a spokesperson biggest catholic church said it a couple years ago that
physician-assisted suicide is false compassion quote frailty pain and infirmity are difficult trial
for everyone including medical staff they call for patience for quote suffering with therefore we
must not give into the functional list temptation to apply rapid and drastic solutions moved by
false compassion or by mayor criteria of efficiency or cost-effectiveness the dignity of human
life is at stake it fission see and cost-effectiveness are no player in mind mind up in and do it for
those who had decayed floor medical aid in dying those are not the ideas that moved us how
and where I know van the Roman catholic church is very much opposed to medical aid in dying
which is why they call it doctor as assisted suicide act it's the language that moves issues and
while I understand their position and did appreciate that fact that they believe that God should
be the only decider it's not my idea it is their view I respect their view I would hope that some
day then my respect mine I guess the other common objection is the slippery slope argument
that patience think their burden on their families they might feel pressured to die sooner or
insurance companies could decide it's cheaper to pay for fatal medication and further
treatment you know Oregon's law has been in place for 22 years in that town there has not
been a single complaint I bet House co-workers Shannon or earn insurance company is denying
copper each in fact in our day and Washington state and hawaii not only do the insurance
companies cover that cause medical aid in dying but magic care Medicaid will pay for it now All
the ie D-Ore for that I really like to give my feet push and O do real life tale because of some
sort inherited 10 inches or some other all whole reason truly nonfat or one single case has been
brought forward the we have another phone call for Diane Greene.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 12 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_52

tomorrow night in roseburg. it's all part of a five part mental health series... is in partnership
with the douglas education service district. each session will focus on different topics, including
suicide, trauma and schizophrenia. organizers say all the presenters are from the area, and
work in behavioral health. the goal is to teach the importance of mental health and how to
treat it. barb hofford, presenter, douglas education service district: mental health conditions,

39

again, are so prevalent. and we are getting more resources here in the county. the series is
targeted toward parents, but it is open to anyone. suicide is tomorrow's topic -- starting at 6:30.
KFXO (FOX)
Feb 12 • 4:21 PM

B_FEB_OREG_53

the social media app, snapchat's launching a too called "here for you the feature offers
resources from mental health experts when user search for sensitive topics, including anxiety,
bullying, or suicide. 'snapchat' has one of the youngest audiences of any social med platform,
reaching 90-percent thirteen to 24-year-olds instagram launched a "restrict" mode last year,
allowing users to block negative comments.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 12 • 4:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_54

an 86-year-old woman. for weeks police asked for the public's help in locating the first vehicle.
then came a break in the case. while investigating the suicide of 73-year- old charles wilcott...
police discovered his damaged pickup. they now suspect wilcott was the driver who first struck
and killed frymire. lisa taskey, frymire's friend tells me she is still looking for closure and if it was
wilcott who killed her friend, this wasn't the outcome she was looking for. sot: it's really sad
that all these lives had to be destroyed just because somebody wasn't being careful. police say
they have taken dna sample from wilcott 's trucks including blood and hair that was found on
it's undercarriage. that evidence is now in the hands of the oregon state police forensic lab but
polcie say it found be months before they get the results back.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 12 • 5:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_55

parents and other community members... can learn more about mental health... tomorrow
night in roseburg. it's all part of a five-part mental health series... is in partnership with the
douglas education service district. each session will focus on different topics, including suicide,
trauma and schizophrenia. organizers say all the presenters are from the area, and work in
behavioral health. the goal is to teach the community about mental health and provide parents
with outreach information. barb hofford, presenter, douglas education service district: we want
people to be able to talk about mental health conditions and let them know you the series will
run through june and they are free to the public. the first session is on suicide. it starts
tomorrow night at 6:30 in the library.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 12 • 6:32 PM

B_FEB_OREG_56

New at 6 tonight-- we're learning new information about a deadly hit and run in springfield.
police have been searching for one of the vehicles, for weeks. michael sevren shows us a
shocking twist may have led to police to find it but it may be too late for justice. lisa taskey a
40

close friend of nevay frymire is still hoping for closure more than two weeks after her friend
was killed after being struck by two cars on main street near 54th. police say frymire wasn't in a
crosswalk and the cars didn't stop after hitting her. witnesses say she was hit straight on by a
pick up and then run over by a second car. sot: she wasn't a careless type of person she was a
member of society like you and me. but taskey hopes they are one step closer to finding
answers. the driver who hit her second has already come forward.. and after a whole week of
police asking the publics help to find the the pick up , police say they may have found it while
investigating the suicide of 73 year old charles wilcott. at his springfield home, they found his
truck --- a 1995 nissan similar to this one. a truck with damage on the front end. investigators
say wilcott told a neighbor he hit a deer. but they say the damage to the truck is not consistent
with a deer or any other animal. they also found a smudge in the dirt on the truck that matched
the fabric pattern of the jeans frymire was wearing. 6pm. stand up. police say they collected
dna samples from inside and outside willcott's truck including blood and hair that was found on
its undercarriage. they have sent those samples to the oregon state crime lab but say it could
be months before they get results back. sot: it's just a waiting game we have to be patient and
we encourage our victims of crimes like this to be as patient as we are in waiting for those
results. taskey, tells me if it was wilcott who killed her friend, this wasn't the outcome she was
looking for. sot: it's really sad that all these lives had to be destroyed just because somebody
wasn't being careful. and not the way she wanted her friend to die.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 12 • 11:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_57

the final saga won't be playing out this week after all. the lawsuit her parents filed against the
department of human services has been pushed back until next week. powell has been missing
since 2009 while her husband is under investigation. he killed himself and the couple's two sons
in a house fire he set. they believe the state could have done more to protect the kids.
Washington says there is only one person to blame and it is josh powell.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 13 • 11:10 AM

B_FEB_WASH_25

a former captain of the ohio state Wrestling team tells state lawmakers at a public hearing he
was pressured by congressman jim jordan 2018 to deny allegations of sex abuse against
wrestlers by a team doctor NBC's brian burke reports a former member of the ohio state
University wrestling program had a decent Votto told members of the Ohio House civil Justice
Committee he had a phone conversation with congressman jim jordan in 28 team in which
jordan cried crop old and begged him to go against his brother who allege sexual abuse by late
Dr. Richard Strauss about 350 men have come forward claiming abuse by Strauss who
committed suicide in 2005 congressman jordan worked as an assistant wrestling coach for 8
years for program many wrestlers say he knew about the abuse but did not come forward.

41

KEZI (ABC)
Feb 13 • 6:05 AM

B_FEB_OREG_58

there's a shocking new twist that may have broken the case of a deadly hit and run in
springfield wide open. for weeks since it happened police have been searching for the vehicle
that could have killed 58 year old nevay frymire . now, that vehicle has likely been found, but
the owner is dead. kezi 9 news reporter jacob roberts is live in springfield at 54th and main
street where the fatal crash happened. jacob.. police said frymire was hit by two vehicles while
walking across the street. a memorial for the woman still sits here on main street. but now,
police have located the pickup they believe hit her first after the owner took his own life.
witnesses say the first car to hit frymire was a pickup. the second driver who hit her is an 86
year old woman who's been cooperating from the start. now... court documents show police
have located what is likely the pickup after investigating the suicide of the owner. police say 73
year old charles wilcott killed himself a week after frymire was run over. police said the hood of
the truck had been hastily washed and there was still dried dirty soap stains on it. but
investigators also found dried blood on the undercarriage. a close friend of frymire says she
hopes for closure. it's really sad that all these lives had to be destroyed just because somebody
wasn't being careful. the man's step- daughter told police he hit a deer. but investigators say
they found evidence on the truck that matched the fabric pattern of the jeans frymire was
wearing. they also found d- n-a which they will be testing, but that could take months. live in
springfield, jr, kezi 9 news. if you or a loved one is suffering from thoughts of suicide, please call
the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 13 • 9:15 AM

B_FEB_WASH_26

…many of us in the mid 2000s and leading into Sandy Hook start just say it's it's not okay to be
silent and we won't let the deck and then silence us because in reality it didn't ever and
research it just created fear and dodd-frank you think the activism that followed the Park land
shooting helped bring you the push for this research I think with the activism following the
Kirkland shooting it really started after Sandy hook it was after the tragedy in were in Sandy
hook we started to see many of us writing op-eds both in medical journals and popular Press
I'm talking about the importance of research and the importance of that public health approach
that Dr. Rosenberg outlined steps for stop approached and talking about the ways in which this
can be done in conjunction with her even with leadership from the gun-owning community and
fact that's why we've done it for research was to make sure that we have voices I'm from all
good we're % all sides are represented in the research and market you see that with all these
tragedies these mass shootings that there are people who are in support of gun rights are
becoming I guess more open to research I think key people legislators some Republicans some
people from red States are starting to understand the value of research and Jay Dickey himself
with though he started out we started out his arch enemy is people who hated each other from
what we were doing Jay Dickey came around to see that we needed to restart the research and
in fact he came out and said we need to get it started and what is the place Jay Dickey wanted
to make was that if jay and I started out as a mortal enemies and we could cover not only to
42

agree on the importance of science and the importance of research not only to agree but ashey
to become friends and people who trusted about each other and care about each other if we
could do it than anyone could do it and so I think this last year when Congress approved an
appropriations to re-start the research I can't overemphasize how important that is that's a
huge staff really important step to solving the problem that was done with Republican and
Democratic support in the House and the Dickey Amendment as make and said and issue really
is courageous and you need to emphasize how brave she was to go into this field but last year
when the House approved this they did it with by hate that will support they started by saying
in the past but they needed to get rid of the Dickey Amendment because it was seen as a threat
and an obstacle but what happened last year is Jay Dickey former wife helped write in
testimony that said now that Dickey Amendment can actually be a bridge to giving the support
of people all over the spectrum for research because what the Dickey Amendment does it is it
says you can't use this money that Congress appropriated for research you can't use it to lobby
for gun-control you can do that research but you can't use it to lobby for gun-control chose this
gave cover to some Republicans on the Appropriations subcommittee to vote for this and this is
something that will need to be expanded the research will need to be done well it will need to
be scientifically objective and it will need to find things that do both reduce gun violence and
protect gun rights Dr. Rani is it clear how the cdc advantage could use this new funding and the
kind of benefits we might see from this research gas absolutely Yeah the cdc has already moved
quickly to release them I mean announcement to train young scholars in the field and has
another one projected to be released within a month on to find large grants umpire injury
Prevention I imagine the N.I.H. will soon follow suit I think a lot of what we'll see early on is
focused on firearm suicide Prevention I two-thirds of gun deaths in the country are suicides And
focused on identifying risk factors and how to mitigate them this is going to be done in
conjunction with the health care community but also and conjunction with trusted messengers
in communities across the country you this field has had so little research done for the past 23
years that it's almost a wide open it would be like if we dent know research and heart attacks
since may 18 96 there's so much that we need to know and mention here that although the 25
million is amazing and as a great step in the right direction what we really need is a 4 billion $ a
year in order for firearm injury Prevention to be funded the same way as other diseases that
killed the same number of people each year so we have a long ways to go and a lot of questions
to answer the drain is changing the morale of people in the field it is you know already in the
last year or two we've seen dramatic growth in the number of people who are dedicating time
and resources really for free I'm researching this really important area and I think we'll see an
explosion of the folks brilliant minds Corps dedicated to taking the song and finding solutions
work for every community across America and just thrilled and excited for what comes next
doctrine are you worried that this funding could be cut under this administration absolutely
that is always a concern particularly in this area of research I mean in the president's proposed
budget for the coming year on that was released just a couple days ago and did not include a
line item for firearm injury Prevention funding I am I think it's on all of us to continue to be
vocal about the importance of this work and about the need for it and about the fact that it
really is a bipartisan effort this is not about gun control versus gun rights this is about creating
Prevention strategies that work for our community is the same way that we have reduced the
number of car crash stocks without taking automobiles off the railroad we can effectively
43

reduce gun deaths in this country well also very much respecting our American right to own
firearms Dr making Ranney is an emergency physician at Brown University and chief research
officer for a firm research and Mark rosenberg is a former director of the National Center for
injury Prevention and control at the C.D.C. thank you both so much.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Feb 13 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_59

today a jury in clark county convicted a man for killing his girlfriend's 5-year-old daughter
though not for murder. ryan berge was convicted of 2 counts of manslaughter. the jury was
hung on that murder charge. prosecutors say that burj attacked the girl for throwing a tantrum
defense attorney argued she killed herself during that fit. birds will be sentenced next month
another guilty verdict, this one in southeast, portland stabbing that happened in 2017 tyler
knees has been convicted of murdering his father. >> now yesterday and courtney's blamed his
brother for the crime, however, prosecutors played jurors that 911 tapes where the father was
telling dispatchers his son tyler had stabbed him. he'll be sentenced next month.
KONG-SEA
Feb 13 • 11:14 AM

B_FEB_WASH_27

every year millions of people in the u.s. are affected by mental illness. in fact, suicide is the
second leading cause of death among people ages 10-for. th woman lost half her family to
suicide, doing everything she can to shatter the silence on the stigma. the first they tell us her
family's heartbreaking story. morning some of you may find this triggering. >> rihanna was the
youngest. she has an older sister. kayla was about six when breanna was born. she was so upset
because she was a girl. >> i for some reason thought i want a brother and she came out and
shwas a girl of course. i was a little sad and mad but then i got to hold her and it wasn't so bad.
>> rihanna always wanted to be her big sister, wanted to be around her, very close when they
were growing up. >> i was more shy she was very outgoing. she would talk to anybody. >> a
very sensitive heart something about her and she is so contagious. chris was such a selfless
man. family was everything to him. me and the girls were his life. >> really fun watching
comedy movies because his laugh was infectious. >> he was the one who tried to hide if they
stayed home from school. >>e was more who we went to for fun and we wanted to learn about
stuff. definitely taught us a lot of stuff when we were younger. i definitely hea of the choking
game before. whenever i was younger i had even done it with my friend. >> what they are
doing is using restriction. you get a euphoric high and feel good. if i would have known about
that i would've talk to breanna about it. you will die. >> way just had dinner with uncle dean
and we are leaving now because we celebrated kayla's graduation. was a good, breanna? >> it
was really boring but the food was good. >> it was summer time breanna had just gotten out of
school. i asked her what her day was like. we just chatted. nothing to be worried about. >> and
win out in the hallway and my mom was banging my sister is good or what are you doing and
she is like her doors locked and harley, our dog at the time, this parking. i can't get the door
open. she had two doors to her room. my dad was trying to open the door on the other side.
>>ll of a sudden i hear this, like a monster, vicious sound. he unlocked the door and all i saw
44

was my daughter on the floor. my husband was over her, trying to resuscitate her. >> her face
was. no color. i still didn't understand what was going on. my dad was telling us he found her in
the closet hanging from the scarf. the next thing i remember is her laying in a hospital bed.
tubes everywhere. >> she was in the hospital four days. chris just wanted her to have time. the
toughest things wead to make the decision. was to let her go. >> my dad took it the hardest. >>
it broke my heart so bad. to see him like that. >> we tried to get past it. me and my mom were
able to do it but my dad wasn't able to. he intentionally took his life. >> just like breanna, he
was in the closet. hung himself. >> this was a man who was the strength of our house. >> i am
having a baby and my dad is not here, my sister is not here. they didn't see me get married or
anything. it has just been really hard to not have them here. >> how is this possible? i lost half
my family. now what i'm supposed to do? what is kayla supposed to do? how are we going to
get through this? >> absolutely heartbreaking. next she will join the panel.
Fox 12 Plus
Feb 13 • 8:36 PM

B_FEB_OREG_60

snapchat is rolling out a new feature to help its users cope with online bullying. it works by
populating self-help information when users search topics like anxiety, depression, suicide, and
bullying. users can also connect with mental health experts through the app. snapchat is the
latest social media platform to address cyberbullying. instagram, pinterest, and facebook all
have tools to try to help manage online harassment.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 13 • 11:05 AM

B_FEB_OREG_61

tonight-- roseburg parents and other community members... can learn more about mental
health. it's all part of a five part mental health series... is in partnership with the douglas
education service district. suicide is the topic for tonight's session that will be starting at 6:30 at
the roseburg library . each session will focus on different topics, including suicide, trauma and
schizophrenia. organizers say all the presenters are from the area, and work in behavioral
health. the goal is to teach the importance of mental health and how to treat it. barb hofford,
presenter, douglas education service district: mental health conditions, again, are so prevalent.
and we are getting more resources here in the county. the series is targeted toward parents,
but it is open to anyone.
Portland's CW
Feb 13 • 9:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_62

courtney stodden is fighting back. you will recall that she shouts a fan back in 2011 when she
married 51-year-old actor doug hutchinson at just 16. now, and a bitter three year divorce,
courtney is revealing that she has a new memoir in the works, which will, on the heels of
hutchinson's own new mom or the tears into the blonde, claiming that she fixed a pregnancy
and miscarriage for money. >> i am working on a book called "blonde and blue," and i'm going
to tell my true story of from when i was a kid that led me into such a crazy life. >> jesse: her
45

toxic relationship led her to a suicide attempt two years ago. they say love is blind, but is it
actually? i knew dating show connects singles looking for love. these singles are making
connections, and there may be even a few proposals. but there is one catch. and it is a big one.
>> i'm of the person i want to spend the rest of my life with. i have never seen her before. >>
"love is blind" is i dating show. you get engaged without ever seeing them. if you want to have
the eligible singles on "love is blind," which gives new meaning to the idea of a blind date. >>
the pods are now open. >> jesse: the contenders get to know each other from within their
individual pots. at the twist, they are never allowed to see each other. the goal is to find a raw,
emotional connection without being blinded by physical appearances. >> before the show, i
don't think i really knew the people i was dating. we are so caught up in the superficial, not
looking deep into hey, what is your character like? >> what are you looking for and a woman?
>> physical appearance -- >> none of that matters. >> the cool thing is that you kind of lay it all
on the line. you are going to take me for me, or this wasn't going to work. in the real dating
world, why do we do that? >> will you be my wife? >> if you do have a connection with
someone, then you get engaged. >> i am engaged to somebody i have never seen before. >>
jesse: only if they get engaged to you they get to meet face to face. how will these relationships
fair in the real world? when love is blind, can there ever beats a happily ever after? >> your
bringing me down. >> and 1 million years, i never expected this. >> do you take her to be your
lawfully wedded wife? >> i cannot do this? >> jesse: and of these singles are guided throughout
the show by nick and vanessa lish a. so, "love is blind"." just in time for valentine's day.
KFXO (FOX)
Feb 13 • 10:52 PM

B_FEB_OREG_63

active minds is a national organization working to destigmatize mental health." that's her-talking about her work in mental health with active minds a stockton university. but wha
happened next- "know what, let me get this real quick right here, here on fresh out live. julie
we have a surprise for you a one hundred-thousand-dollar check-- from justin bieber himsel
julie coker/ pres., stockt chapter, active mind "the video doesn't look like too excited but i was
just i didn't know what was going on, i was shocked. bieber chose coker as the recipient of the
money-- to help her further he work in mental healt awareness-- and say thank you. julie coker/
pres., stockt chapter, active minds: "mental health is so important to me because of my own
mental health challenges. i had very ba depression growing up and anxiety and once i became
recovered i started working as a mental healt advocate." nathan morell/ asst dir. of counseling
services: "she has this relentless passion for human life and fighting stigma and shame and
preventing suicide an eating disorders." back at school-- and still in shock-- coker says this
money will give her a chance t pursue something she nev dreamed would be possible.
KREM (CBS)
Feb 14 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_28

tonight we are looking again at a yearlong timeline of family conflict as a search continues for
two missing idaho children 7 year old j.j. barlow and 17 year old tyler ryan have been missing
now for five months. we've now learned there is an app used by jj school in arizona that is
46

offering up some new clues. our sister station in boise reached the school where jj is school life
adds new details to the growing conflict between his parents. we start in february 2019 in
gilbert arizona where jj value is attending school at warren's institute for education or life. on
february 5th jj is absent from school. six days later charles visits the school claiming murray had
gone crazy and was hearing religious voices she had also disappeared to an unknown location
the same day charles says he has a protection order against lori and he tells life he's pulling jj
out of school and taking him out of state until he's safe. days later charles files for divorce from
lori. on february 21st charles and jj returned to life academy. lori is still am i am moving to
march charles formally withdraws jj from school saying they're going to texas fast forward to
late june. lori contacts life saying the family was back in gilbert and she enrolled j.j. in the
school's summer program. on july 11th charles barlow is shot and killed by worried brother alex
cox. about a week and a half later laurie tells jj school that charles committed suicide through
their own research life learns charles was killed as part of a family dispute. so as part of its due
diligence policy the school files a report with arizona's department of child safety. on august 5th
jj starts the new school year at life. later that month jj is grandparents kay and larry woodcock
contact the school asking if jj was ok. on september 5th laurie withdraws jj from life via email
and phone in the email which katie beebe obtained. laurie says she's moving out of state for a
new job and j.j. won't be returning to school. Finally december 20 a detective contacts the
school and informs them of jay jay's disappearance so we know that jj was last seen in school in
roxburgh on september 20 third we have not found any additional school records for his sister.
police say she was also last seen in september just a wild case that just keeps getting weirder by
the minute.
KONG-SEA
Feb 14 • 7:04 PM

B_FEB_WASH_29

the heart of the nation sank with news that a missing 6- year-old girl named faye had been
found murdered and now we're hearing the devastating 911 call policed placed by her panicked
mother when she couldn't find her daughter. >> the 911 call when the family first realized she
was missing. >> i can't find my daughter. they was playing outside. now i can't find her. >> these
were the last images of 6-year-old faye getting off her school bus in columbia, south carolina, at
2:50 p.m. monday. she got a snack and went to play in the front yard. >> you last saw her in the
front yard. you didn't see which way she went or anything like that? >> no. she was just playing
in front of my front porch. >> how long has she been gone? >> probably about an hour ago. >>
the search for faye made national news. >> the fbi is joining the search for a missing 6-year-old
girl from south carolina. >> her image was posted on billboards all over town, but hope of a safe
return turned to tragedy yesterday when her body was found in the woods behind her home.
cops have named 30-year-old cody taylor, a college dropout, as the prime suspect. he was also
found dead inside his home just 150 feet from where the little girl was abducted. it's not known
if it was a suicide. >> he was a neighbor. he was not a relative. he was not a friend. he was
merely a neighbor. you are my sunshine . >> now faye's heartbroken family is sharing this
poignant video, the youngster singing you are my sunshine. you'll never know dear how much i
love you.

47

KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 14 • 6:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_64

deb: new tonight at 6:00, newberg school district is taking the tough topic of mental health and
making sure people are talking about it specifically students. >> steve: as genevieve reaume
shows us, what it came to getting help, the district did not let budget restraints get in the way.
>> genevieve: many districts have said they don't have the funds to get the help they need.
newberg did not buy that. and when it needed help the most, urriti figured out a way to make it
happen. the results, like nothing i've ever seen in the year plus i've been covering youth mental
health. >> every summer i took the kids to picture perfect. >> genevieve: lori and dave peterson
had a pretty picture perfect life. >> him and his brother. >> genevieve: of three kids, paige was
the baby. >> they even now, i just want to hear his name. just somebody say his name. >>
genevieve: his athleticism, humor, and kindness. easy to get along with? >> very. >> very easy.
>> genevieve: masked his misery. >> it was just like, it felt like out of the blue. what just
happened? >> genevieve: in 2015, at just 17 years old, he took his life. >> ripped you apart and
totally exposeed you. >> genevieve: his death was one of several attempted and completed
suicides that would numb newberg school district in a year period. what it would propel was
unprecedented. >> this is just one of the rooms where students can come in, sit with a
counselor. >> genevieve: the school district compiled resources from across the area. therapists
from the county and providence medical group, aspiring clinician and social workers from
george fox. these resources, they're not coming out of the district's budget. >> not one penny.
>> genevieve: almost all the funding is coming from grants and donations. >> there really aren't
other models around bringing in such a wide community support network. >> genevieve: now
students can get free help on a daily basis, right here at school. >> the kids that have this
access, they tend not to need to go to the emergency room. >> genevieve: this pledge to help
kids like paige permeated the community. this used to be an old tigard police car. until local
companies gave it new life. in honor of a life taken way too soon. jeff moreland, the school
resource officer, now drives it. >> as much as i'd like to go back and time to prevent it, i'm
hopeful that this car in his honor will maybe prevent something like that in the future. >>
genevieve: it's all part of an effort to make these picture-perfect moments -- >> if there's
always a scar, it will never be perfect or heal over. but you can still be happy. >> genevieve: -more than just memories. paige always wore shorts and socks. no matter the weather. so after
his death, a pair of thieves created these socks in his honor. they even got suicide prevention
hotline number on them. the company is bringing them back in september for suicide
prevention month.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 15 • 8:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_30

in london a TV presenter of the popular British reality should love I and Caroline flag has died
aged 14 from suicide truck was found dead in her London apartment this weekend to resign
from the day to show off she was charged with assaulting her pot that was due to stand trial
next month.

48

News Radio KEX
Feb 15 • 10:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_65

in England tragedy and for a former television host a TV presenter of the popular British realityshow love I and Caroline flak has died aged 14 from suicide truck was found dead in her London
apartment this weekend to resign from the date to show off she was charged with assaulting
her pot that was due to stand trial next month.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 15 • 8:45 AM

B_FEB_OREG_66

this morning in katu's kind is better, a local school district is taking a pioneer approach to the
topic of mental health. as genevieve reaume shows us, when it came to getting their students
the help they needed, the newberg school district didn't let budget restraints get in their way.
>> genevieve: many districts have said they don't have the funds to get the help they need.
newberg did not buy that. and when it needed help the most, it figured out a way to make this
happen. the results like nothing i've ever seen in the year plus i've been covering youth mental
health. >> every summer i took the kids to picture perfect. >> genevieve: lori and dave picture
had a pretty picture-perfect life. >> him and his brother, yeah. >> genevieve: of three kids,
paige was the baby. >> they even now, i just want to hear his name. just somebody say his
name. >> genevieve: his athleticism, humor, and kindness. easy to get along with? >> very. >>
very easy. >> genevieve: masked his misery. >> felt like out of the blue. like, what just
happened? >> genevieve: in 2015, at just 17 years old, he took his life. >> ripped you apart and
totally exposeed you. >> wesleigh: his death was one of several attempted and completed
suicides that would numb newberg school district in a year period. what it would propel was
unprecedented. >> this is just one of the rooms where students can come in, sit with a
counselor. >> genevieve: the school district compiled resources from across the area. therapy
'tises from the county and providence medical group, aspiring clinicians and social workers from
george fox. these are not coming out of the district's budget. >> not one penny. >> genevieve:
almost all the funding is coming from grants and donations. >> there aren't any models around
bringing in such a wide community support network. >> genevieve: now students can get free
help on a daily basis, right here at school. >> the kids that have this access, they tend not to
need to go to the emergency room. >> genevieve: this pledge to help kids like paige permeated
the community. this used to be arnold tigard police car until local companies gave it new life. in
honor of a life taken way too soon. jeff mayorland, the school resource officer, now drives it. >>
as much as i would love to go back in time and do something to prevent it, i'm hopeful that this
car in his honor will maybe prevent something like that in the future. >> genevieve: it's all part
of an effort to make these picture-perfect moments -- >> if there's always a scar, it will never be
perfect or healed over, but you can still be happy. >> genevieve: more than just memories.
paige always wore shorts and socks, no matter the weather. so after his death pair of thieves
created these socks in his honor. they've even got the suicide prevention hotline number on
them. the company is bringing them back in september for suicide prevention month.

49

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 15 • 10:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_31

so at a time when cyber bullying is everywhere online social networking sites are trying to
figure out how to address it so snapchat. >> is now rolling out a new feature called here for you
it works by populating self-help information when users search topics like anxiety depression
suicide and bullying. users can also connect with mental health experts to the ap snapchat is
just the latest social media platform to address cyber bullying. instagram pinterest and
facebook all have tools to try to help manage online harassment. more than half of kids and
teens say they've been victims of cyber bullying.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 2:25 PM

B_FEB_WASH_32

Nicholas kristoff his wife Cheryl Wu dunn were in the Seattle area last week talking about her
new book they voted after noticing a disturbing trend when going back to visit Christos family in
world Yamhill Oregon about 60 miles southwest of Portland the tells many stories of people
enroll America's struggling middle class including his former classmates on the and help us we
tell this story a tight group of this family they got on the bus right Yes dry did should do you see
oil in may said and Regina and feelin and dad had a job laying pipes the mom had a job driving a
tractor and then farland thi aid of the consequences of the drug and alcohol use the Regina Dar
aid of hepatitis a linked to drug use Zlin died in a House fire was passed out drunk and Nathan
blew himself up making math and Killen the youngest to survive because he spent 13 years in a
state penitentiary and Christoph and woo young say what's happening in rural Oregon is
happening all over the country a quarter of the kids on my school bus have died from drugs
alcohol suicide and this is happening across the country and you know every two weeks we lose
more americans from drugs alcohol and suicide and country lost 18 years of war in Afghanistan
and Iraq and jobs move got these rural areas Unfortunately drugs moved in this area is used to
support middle-class lifestyles are being decimated they called the book tight rope because a
lot of these middle class families are just one disaster from falling off the tight rope and the
consequences affect not only that person but every family member because it's such a fragile
walk to stay in the middle class.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 12:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_67

in Britain tributes are pouring in for a reality TV star who died this weekend by suicide Vicki
Barker reports from london Caroline Flack was a glamorous host of the enormously successful
sexually explicit UK reality TV series love Ireland but the 40 year-old lost her job just before
Christmas after her arrest for allegedly assaulting her boyfriend on Saturday Flack was found
dead a family lawyer confirms it was suicide and now social media posts and newspaper
headlines are blaming prosecutors her former employers and reality TV in general which has
been accused of exploiting emotionally vulnerable people to former love violent contestants
have also killed themselves after their brief moments of celebrity.
50

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 7:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_33

stephanie Ramos in new York gathering more information we Weaver was wanted for
questioning in the weeks after the killing but ran away as he was being taken in for questioning
eventful he's admitted tweet police interview and DNA testing a 13 year-old alleged accomplice
who has been in custody for two months bases of felony murder charge reality TV host Caroline
Flack who hosted British television love island another shows in the UK is died by suicide the 40
year-old found in the home.
KOBI
Feb 16 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_68

Medford police are investigating a death near the greenway sunday morning. a large police
presence was seen on the greenway between the medford dog park and the dairy queen on
barnett road. according to police - a man took his own life. police are still waiting to contact
next of kin and an investigation is ongoing. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected
to a crisis counselor.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 7:25 AM

B_FEB_WASH_34

aid the consequences of the drug and alcohol use the Regina stars aid of hepatitis a linked to
drug use the Zlin died in a House fire when she was passed out drunk and Nathan blew himself
up making math and Killen the youngest to survive because he spent 13 years in a state
penitentiary and Christoph and woo young say what's happening in rural Oregon is happening
all over the country a quarter of the kids on my school bus have died from drugs alcohol suicide
and this is happening across the country and you know every two weeks we lose more
americans from drugs alcohol and to Side and country lost in 18 years of war in Afghanistan and
rock and jobs moved out of these rural areas Unfortunately drugs moved in these areas used to
support middle-class lifestyles are being decimated and they called the book tight rope because
a lot of these middle class families are just one disaster from falling off the tight rope and the
consequences affect not only that person but every family member because such a fragile walk
to stay in the middle class.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 16 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_69

… happen. the results, like nothing i have ever seen in the year plus i have been covering youth
mental health. >> yeah. every summer i took the kids to, like, picture-perfect. >> lori and dave
peterson had a pretty picture-perfect lie. >> three kids, paige was the baby. >> even now, i
want to hear his name. just somebody say his name. >> his athleticism, humor, and kindness. >>
51

easy to get along with. >> very. very easy. >> masked his misery. >> it was just like... it felt like
out of blue. like, what just happened? >> in 2015, at just 17 years old, he took his life. >> ripped
you apart and totally exposed you. >> paige's death was one of several attempted and
completed suicides that would numb the school district in a year period. what it would propel
was unprecedented. >> so this is just one of the rooms where students can come in , sit with a
counselor. >> the school district compiled resources from across the area. therapists from the
county and providence medical group, aspiring clinicians and social workers from george fox. >>
these resources, these therapists, though, they are not coming out of the district's budget. >>
not one penny. >> almost all the funding comes from grants and donations. >> there aren't
other models around that are bringing in such a wide community support network. >> now
students can get free help on a daily basis. right here at school. >> the kids that have this
access, they tend not to need to go to the emergency room. >> this pledge to help kids like
paige permeated the community. >> this used to be an old police car until local companies gave
it new life. in honor of a life taken way too soon. jeffmoreland, the school resource officer now
drives it. >> as much as i would love to go back in time and do something to prevent it, i'm, i'm
hopeful that this car in his honor will maybe prevent something like that in the future. >> it is all
part of an effort to make these picture-perfect moments... >> if there is always a scar, it will
never be perfect or healed over. you can still be happy. . >> ... more than just memories. paige
always wore shorts and socks. no matter the weather. after his death, pair they created these
socks in his honor. the suicide hot line number is on them. in the studio, katu news.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 9:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_35

in Britain tributes are pouring in after the death this weekend of a reality TV star as Vicki Barker
reports from london Caroline flak isn't the only person Associated with the show to died by
suicide Caroline Flack was the glamorous host of the enormously successful sexually explicit UK
reality TV series love Ireland but the 40 year-old lost her job just before Christmas after her
arrest for allegedly assaulting her boyfriend on Saturday Flack was found dead a family lawyer
confirmed it was suicide and now social media posts and newspaper headlines are blaming
prosecutors her former employers and reality TV in general which has been accused of
exploiting emotionally vulnerable people to former love violent contestants have also okay of
themselves after their brief moments of celebrity ended.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 12:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_36

in Britain tributes are pouring in for a reality TV star who died this weekend by suicide Vicki
Barker reports from London Caroline Flack was a glamorous host of the enormously successful
sexually explicit UK reality TV series love Ireland but the 40 year-old lost her job just before
Christmas after her arrest for allegedly assaulting her boyfriend on Saturday Flack was found
dead a family lawyer confirms it was suicide and now social media posts and newspaper
headlines are blaming prosecutors her former employers and reality TV in general which has

52

been accused of exploiting emotionally vulnerable people to former love violent contestants
have also killed themselves after their brief moments of celebrity.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 16 • 8:22 AM

B_FEB_WASH_37

something you mentioned more than once in every time you say the words it frightens me the
suicide the scenes with good reason Yes I tried jamming Almirall she said I was able to say you
did it and did it well okay thank you so talk to us talk to us about the suicide disease once called
back well try it the new real jay is just an ad normal condition the notion is a big enough on the
side of the face with 3 branches called try Jemele try standing for 3 teacher and and when they
pay people to am I tried him around and tn may be an easier time pressed years it is known as
the suicide disease because more human beings commit suicide because of this condition and
with this condition than any other single condition was like unrelenting pain aside your pain
and really it Yes and and and it affects people just wind blowing on the face just turning ahead
oj's pressure against the skin these are the kind of thing that time and how long can this last
risk the lives of their life people will have their whole lives and pay to play well the slums that
commits suicide belt Yeah of course and they come to the audience and it can be a very large
but it can also be a smaller part of the face correct Yeah can affect all 3 notes more common
one to the lives and can change you can move around one of Europe's patience is been kind
enough to join us here this morning a Frankie in federal way is here with us Hi Frank welcome
to the show I thank you good to be here get a great name it's it's nice to meet you so my
understanding is you had the suicide disease you had tried jamming old arouse their first
sometimes right 25 years
KXLY (ABC)
Feb 17 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_38

today a bill requiring a national suicide prevention hotline to be printed on student and staff
indentifications cards. ...has passed the house. this would require elementary, secondary and
higher education student and staff i-ds to be reprinted with the hotline information on them
along with the contact informationfor one or more campus ... local ... state or national
organziation specializing in sucide prevention ... crisis intervention or counseling if available. the
next step for this bill is the state senate.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 17 • 7:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_39

this has been an especially bad year for police suicides in one of the latest is a member of the
NYPD detective pol Federico hang himself inside his mother's home in Queens he had been on
the force 29 years and was most recently assigned the police commissioner's office 10 NYPD
officers died by suicide and 2019 detective fit Rico's was the first in 2020 the NYPD and a
number of police departments across the country have been dealing with a rash of suicides
prompting new protocols and new outreach efforts to get officers in need to help our captors.
53

KMTR (NBC)
Feb 17 • 6:36 PM

B_FEB_OREG_70

speaking of healthcare, on the topic of student mental health, teenage suicide, what are you
hoping to bring in the table on this discussion? >> i want to hear from the students and in
particular because oregon has a very high suicide rate regrettably both for students and for
others. on the finance committee, we have a jurisdiction over medicaid. that is the program for
people in medicaid pays much for the mental health services in oregon and in our country. so i
want to listen to the students. eventually, there's going to be in your three-digit line particularly
to hear from students and others who may be concerned taking their life. that's going to help
too.
KXLY (ABC)
Feb 17 • 5:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_40

today the house unanimously passed a bill requiring student i-d cards to have suicide
prevention information. house bill 25-89 would make public schools and universities print
contact information for national suicide prevention lifeline on student and staff identification
cards...it would also require the printing of local and state organizations that specialize in
suicide prevention, crisis intervention, and counseling... moves to the state senate...
KTVZ (NBC)
Feb 18 • 6:57 PM

B_FEB_OREG_71

an inmate died at the deschutes county jail this morning. jail deputies say they found , 33-yearold chad bomar in his cell around 10-a-m. bomar was arrested on robbery charges and was
scheduled for arraignment tomorrow. ### " staff discovered him on a routine round shortly
after breakfast. they went in to do their routine round and they discovered him unresponsive.
they made immediate entry in the cell to do life saving precautions to him.and he did have a
cell mate at the time." oregon state police are investigating the death. the sheriff's office is
calling it an apparent suicide attempt. jail deputies responded to 17 suicide attempts in the jail
last year.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 19 • 7:40 AM

B_FEB_WASH_41

Prime Minister Tony Abbott says the top level of the Malaysia Malaysian government long
suspected that the disappearance of malaysia airline lines flight 3 70 almost 6 years ago was a
mass murder-suicide by a pilot and it was Prime Minister when the plane vanished in 2014
Malaysia's former leader and police chief both say there was no conclusive proof of pilot suicide
although Lewis never ruled out.

54

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 19 • 6:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_42

a tacoma judge expected to hear witness testimony today through the rest of the week. in the
case of 2 young boys killed by their father the civil trial is meant to determine whether the state
did enough to protect charlie and braden powell from their dad. josh powell. >> the boys were
killed by their dad in a murder suicide at his grand home in 2012. josh powell was also the
prime suspect in his wife, susan cox powell is 2009 disappearance she's never been found
susan's parents filed suit against our state's department of social and health services blaming
them for the deaths of her 2 grandsons. so we're going bring brandi kruse in on this first take us
through who's expected to testify this week as you kind of a mix of expert testimony of people
you know who were involved in the case directly but we're going to offer some expert opinions
and then you have a mix of law enforcement and folks at department of social and health
services who were perhaps of in the case directly so it is going to be. >> i think a long trial it's
going to be a lot for the jury to take and of course we're going to there as all these witnesses
take the stand and relaying you know their testimony to but let me just show you what we're
looking just for the rest of the week. let's start there as to who's going to take the stand in this
trial. so jay ramon she's a former dshs social worker but she is set to testify for the plaintiffs and
what we're expecting her to say is that dshs has a history of essentially not doing enough to
really look out for the wheelchair, welfare of children in their care and then you have rocky
stephenson he is a child protective services lead to investigating neglect and mistreatment
related to this case. and jane wilson will probably round things out on friday of this week. so
she is the responsible with approval from a supervisor for more ving these supervised visits the
charlie and braden had with their dad from a neutral location to josh powells home where we
know he ended up killing them and so jane's testimony is going to be interesting in terms of
what her reasoning is what went into that decision to say all right, let's let the kids visit their
dad at this rental home he hasn't ground and also i mean like you said it's coming along trial.
but also i would assume an emotional trial. it was an emotional day yesterday with opening
argument. yeah we already saw that we already expected in you're really going to have 2 very
different approaches here for the plaintiffs in this case, the attorneys representing susan's
parents. they're really going to push the emotion of this case and it's hard to ignore the
emotion of this case and then on the flip side you're going to have the state try to steer the jury
away from the motion. i want you to play just that the very first a few seconds all of the plane
tubes attorney. speaking to jurors watch. >> knew she did 2 boys. This were the the spores
were in the care custody and control of the state of washington. the state of washington have
taken those 2 beautiful boys away from their father because they believed that josh powell was
in imminent risk of harm to the boys. >> yet as that attorney went on to say despite the fact the
state believed that the state still allow those boys to continue to have supervised visits with
their dad to take that emotional opening and compare it to the opening from the attorney for
the state. >> we asked as you listen to the evidence. the testimony after with us. you keep an
open mind. you sat through the evidence. recently and logically. don't allow your thought
process to be clouded. the facts of the brutal murder. >> yeah and as liz was just saying that's a
tough 32 to ask a jury to do to young but you know in reality is a jury your emotions aren't
supposed to factor into whether it's a civil case or criminal case. they're not supposed to factor
55

into your look as is the state's attorney said there at the logical that the facts that are presented
in front of you that doesn't mean it's as you said was an easy thing to do so trial that we're
going to fall in closely, but i know so many people have cared about this case for so many years
and are watching the outcome of this with interest.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 18 • 6:12 PM

B_FEB_WASH_43

chilling new details tonight about the 6-year-old south carolina girl who authorities now say
was abducted and killed by a neighbor who then killed himself. here is morgan chesky. >>
reporter: tonight the city of cayce, south carolina mourning the loss of a little girl named faye.
>> we all became part of faye's family. >> reporter: a fun- loving 6-year-old with a silly side and
a sweet tooth. the vigil just hours after authorities released new details about her tragic
disappearance. >> faye's death was a homicide and took place within only a few hours after she
was abducted. >> reporter: faye disappeared last monday, playing outside after school
detectives didn't find her until thursday shadowing garbage trucks, police say they found two
clues in a trash can belonging to her neighbor. >> one was a child's polka dot boot and the
second was a soup ladle that had freshly dug dirt in it >> reporter: within minutes of those
discovery, the chief found faye's body in a nearby wooded area the cause of death is
asphyxiation shortly after police returned to that neighbor, coty scott taylor's home, where
they found him dead in his backyard law enforcement officials say the 30-year-old with no
criminal history took his own life less than 24 hours earlier, officers say they actually questioned
taylor and even searched his home, but found nothing suspicious >> faye will never be
forgotten. >> reporter: a bright legacy amidst incredible loss.
KONG-SEA
Feb 18 • 6:41 AM

B_FEB_WASH_44

according to the motley pool, allergan is focusing on millennials with its new jupiter advertising
campaign. joubert term sales jumped nearly 5% during the fourth quarter last year. in working
it today, what employees will have a mental health condition each year. given the right
resources, all employees benefit from a supportive, psychologically safe workplace. here to
share more about creating a stable supportive and less stressful work environment, president
and ceo of mental health america. a doctor, president, and ceo of beacon health options. good
to have you both year. how prevalent are mental health issues in the workplace? >> there are
serious issues are a workplace mental health. two-thirds of people tell us the workplace
stresses are so great that they engage in unhealthy behaviors afterwards, or take it ut on family
and friends grade one and six actually have to interrupt their career at some point for mental
health conditions. if we lose up to one person every single workday to suicide while they're on
the job. these are all striking statistics, but there is a lot that we can do. no matter what the size
of the employer, there are things we can do to make a difference in people's lives to reduce
stress, improve well-being, and to improve productivity. the bottom line as a result. >> angela:
what kind of conditions are the most column? >> we have 5,000 employees and i think the
thing we see the most is people struggling with anxiety, people struggling with depression,
56

stress. this isn't just caused by the workplace, extends from outside, home, environmental
issues that come together in the workplace. that's where it gets recognized and it impacts their
performance appeared and impacts their relationships. impacts how they're able to do their
jobs. >> angela: what should employers do to help employees? >> we can create an
environment where it is safe to talk about mental health issues. there are still a lot of stigma
about mental health issues and people are reluctant to talk about it, embarrassed to talk about
it with their families and friends and certainly with the workplace. to create an environment
where it's safe. where supervisors can reach out to people and ask them how they're doing.
they can point them to services or programs, the right insurance programs where they can get
help. it's too bright on the stigma and general. >> angela: are there any companies that are
doing a great job right now? >> practically every company is doing something right. we would
like to recognize all of that, but today we can recognize the first few companies that have
actually gone through the process to get a seal for telehealth. ashland chemicals in ohio, dallasfort worth airport, beacon health options. we are proud of what they are doing. >> angela:
thank you for being here. we would love having you on the show.
KOBI
Feb 19 • 11:20 AM

B_FEB_OREG_72

everyday... someone takes their own life. suicide doesn't just affect one group of people ... it
affects everyone. it's a hard topic to discuss... but it's crucial we break down the stigma around
suicide and start a conversation about it. nbc5's blakely mchugh sat down with a woman who's
courageously sharing with us how she lost her brother to suicide... and is hoping her story of
loss... will mean saving a life. "danny. his name is danny. he was 57 years old. he passed away
june 12th of 2019." less than a year after the passing of her brother ... sue thinks back to the
day he left this earth... "devastating." "suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary
problem." in april of last year ... sues brother attempted to take his life for the first time. her
family never realized the gravity of danny's depression ... until that moment. "the nurse had
asked my brother 'how long have you been depressed? and he said 'my whole life' and it
floored my mom...we had no idea. we just thought danny was danny, he also liked to be by
himself and that's okay some people are just like that but yeah he had been suffering for a lot
longer than we realized." at the time of his passing ... sue says his marriage of 20 years was
ending ... and he was having to sell his home. "i think too many things were crashing down on
him at once and he just lost hope. that's the unanswered question, why." despite what he was
going through ... she believes he wanted to live ... he just didn't know how. "he didn't want to
die. he told his mother in law after his first attempt, when he came to, he told her 'i don't want
to die.' he was just in so much pain that i don't think- i know he didn't realize he was going to
leave behind so many people that loved him or he wouldn't have done it." sue says she saw the
signs that her brother was struggling... "his hygeine started going down, he stopped eating, he
was looking old" but at the time... didn't know they were the signs of someone considering
suicide."i took this tree from his house and i love to look at it through my kitchen window"
when she remembers her brother... she remembers a lot of good things... "one thing i learned
at his memorial a bunch of his coworkers showed up from masterbrand, they told us he lent
money to people but didnt really expect the money to be paid back. he gave rides to people
57

that needed rides.he was just an all around good guy that was hurting." since the day sue lost
her brother ... she started learning about mental health ... "i've been doing a lot of research on
mental health and it's real." and what signs to look out for. "i ask people at work all the time
'are you okay?' and they kind of look at me like yeah im fine but im just learning we just need to
reach out and be aware of those signs" "b: anybody who's going to be watching this and maybe
there in that place your brother danny was in, what would you want them to know, or hear, or
get out of this?" "s: i would say there is help.there are people out there who love you. don't
give up. you are in this life for a reason. and just reach out." There is no text available for this
station at this date and time. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KBNZ
Feb 18 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_73

> this morning deputies at the deschutes county jail found an inmate unconscious after an
apparent suicide. welcome to "central oregon daily," >> i'm allen schauffler. >> i'm samantha
o'connor. deputies immediately started cpr but chad bomar could not be revived. >> he was in
for drug charges as well as theft charges, so he's been in our custody before and hence why he
was housed with another cellmate as he was going through his incarceration and due to have
court very soon.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 19 • 4:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_74

experts say the suicide rate in lane county is higher than the state average. and the state
average is higher than the national average. thanks for joining us, i'm chynna greene. kezi 9
news reporter kennedy dendy spoke to experts in lane county about why access to mental
health resources... can become a waiting game for many in tonight's top story i spoke to mark
beach,the director of parent education at the child center...who shared why the waitlist issue
needs a solution...immediately. "i would really like to see access being smoother for families,
because i know there are a lot of people out there who are hurting and stuck and not getting
what they need." beach says when it comes to finding mental health services.. oregon is one of
the states where people struggle the most. in fact... the average wait time to see a mental
health professional in lane county can span from a several weeks to months. "we cant hire
therapists fast enough to be able to keep up with the pace of the need, so we have a number of
people waiting for services." the child center is just one of the sites who work with those who
need help. that includes children as young as 18 months...all the way up to 18 years of age.
"we've got fantastic people working for us, and we just need more of them." coming up at 5,
hear from the executive director of the lane county's national alliance on mental illness about
her hope everyone who walks through the doors. reporting in springfield, kennedy dendy kezi 9
news. the national suicide prevention lifeline is 1-800-273-8255, for anyone in need of
immediate assistance.

58

KEZI (ABC)
Feb 19 • 6:43 AM

B_FEB_OREG_75

alert, some high schoolers in eugene are taking a new approach to preventing suicide. and,
they're hoping the "sources of strength" program catches on, with other schools. the bethel
school district implemented the program at both of its high schools and all of its middle schools.
the key message: hope, help, strength. yesterday, peer leaders at willamette high school held a
roundtable with u.s. senator ron wyden and health officials. there they talked about how the
program works -- and what they need to make it as successful as possible. the idea behind the
program is for students to help other students focus on their strengths and build resiliency. "i
just like to volunteer for these kinds of things, and like sources of strength has been a huge help
for me. and like i know a lot of people too, and i feel honored to be able to do this." the oregon
health authority is backing the national program. bethel hopes to add it to their elementary
schools next year.
KHQ (NBC)
Feb 19 • 6:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_45

the final chapter for the horrific saga of a utah woman who vanished a decade ago -- and the
killings of her young sons a few years later. josh powell was suspected in the 2009
disappearance of his wife susan cox powell. her parents have sued washington state's
department of social health and services -- alleging negligence helped contribute to the death
of their grandsons in 2012. a caseworker had brought the boys to their fathers for a supervised
visit when he locked her out -- attacked the boys and killed them and himself in an explosive
fire. the trial started yesterday -- a lawyer for the state said before the murders -- there wasnt
enough evidence to deny powell visitation. now to chilling new details about the six- year-old
south carolina girl who disappeared from her front yard last week. police now say 6-year-old
faye swetlik was suffocated to death by her next-door neighbor -- 30- year-old cody scott taylor.
they believe the murder happened just hours after he kidnapped her. officers followed garbage
trucks through their neighborhood... and found evidence linking the two together. detectives
say swetlik's boot showed up in taylor's trash can... along with a soup ladle with fresh dirt in it.
police say taylor killed himself in his home on the same day officers found faye's body.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 18 • 4:30 PM

B_FEB_WASH_46

nearly a decade after a pierce county man killed himself and his two boys, the state is on trial
blamed for contributing to the boys' deaths. the story of josh powell made national news back
in 2009 when his wife, susan, disappeared from their utah home. at the time, powell said he
had been camping during a december snowstorm with his two preschool boys brayden and
charlie. >> i tyler story. >> yeah, it was sad. he was always a person of interest in the case but
never charged in her disappearance and that's still an unsolved crime. he moved home to
puyallup. the state eventually took custody of the boys during a supervised visit in february
2012. powell would not let the social worker in the house. he grabbed the boys injuring them
59

with an ax, poured gasoline around the home and set that home on fire. it was a dark day in our
area. powell and his sons were killed. his in-laws are suing the state saying more should have
been done to protect those boys. >> how could the state have allowed this visitation at the one
place on earth that josh powell had complete control. >> he was doing everything that was
asked of him. maybe putting on a good show. taking every step he needed to take to get his
boys back. >> the state says that powell had more than 20 supervised visits with his boys
without any problem and the boys liked being with him. susan powell's parents, chuck and judy
cox, are seeking millions of dollars from the state for failing to protect brayden and charlie.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 19 • 7:35 AM

B_FEB_WASH_47

state lawmakers are moving ahead with the creation of a new state agencies will be dedicated
to reducing gun violence more from Cuomo's Carling johnson Senate narrowly approved setting
up the office of firearms safety and violence prevention Republicans called for more emphasis
on suicide Prevention is part of gun violence to peace senator John brom wanted to add that to
the agency's role one sentence and the intense section just says 79% of all fire thus far his own
suicide and adds two words for shows including suicide can critics senator Maka Dhingra said
other groups are addressing that she another Kratz rejected every amendment offered by
Republicans need to look forward to adopt some of those ideas as this office continues to work
that it does Republicans said they worried the new agency is really aimed at law abiding citizens
to Own guns in the House Democrats approved a Bill to expand background check.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 19 • 8:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_48

Washington lawmakers want to collect data on gun violence as a tool to find out how to
prevent it the Senate has approved a bill that would put money toward data gathering and
violence prevention programs King County already has a similar program it collects information
on homicide and suicide deaths and the parties involved Meanwhile lawmakers did not pass the
bill that would have banned the sale of assault weapons and large capacity magazines that bills
been proposed and failed multiple times.
KONG-SEA
Feb 19 • 11:20 AM

B_FEB_WASH_49

welcome back to dbl., beloved wife and mother jennifer dulos disappeared nine months ago in
connecticut, her estranged husband was recently charged with murder but a new twist has left
investigators baffled, and grabbed national headlines as it was to be as true crime chronicles. >>
jennifer and her husband were college sweethearts. in 2004 they relocated to farmington,
connecticut. they had five children, two sets of twins and a daughter. in 2017, jennifer files for
divorce, over the next two years, the couple became estranged amid a nasty custody dispute.
>> is an exhausting fight, i love my children. >> in late may jennifer dropped the kids off at
school and is never seen again. she is reported missing that day. police find your blood inside
60

the garage of her home. that same evening, her husband and his girlfriend, michelle, are caught
on camera dumping garbage bags containing jennifer's blood. >> know what i have done and i
know what haven't done. i have to stand and fight. and hope that this is going to come out. >>
10 days later fotis and his girlfriend are charged with tampering evidence. they plead not guilty.
then, months later, fotis's charged with napping and murdering jennif. his girlfriend, and former
lawyer are also charged in connection to the case. in his new attorney insists there is no
evidence of a murder. >> there is nobody, we have a suspicious disappearance and entirely
circumstantial ca. >> what these charges tell us if the state has evidence and has not know what
to make of it. >> weeks later? >> an expedited response. >> fotis failed to show up for an
emergency bail hearing. officers tried checking on him at home. >> they could see through a
window that mr. dulos was sitting in his vehicle and, he and obvious signs of medical stress. >>
fotis was rushed to a hospital for carbon monoxide poisoning. >> fotis dulos was declared dead
tonight and 5:32. >>'s death was ruled a suicide. he left behind a suicide note proclaiming his
innocence. almost a year later. and, dozens of searches, jennifer's body still hasn't been found.
what happened to the loving mother of five? >>> earlier, tory, ellen i spoke with a reporter
who's been following this case since the start. we are joined now by anchor and reporter ben
goldman from fox 61 in hartford, connecticut. thank you for joining us. this is a very timely case,
there are new developments right now so fotis dulos recently died by suicide. since he was
charged with murdering his ex-wife what happens now? will his murder trial continue?! this is
the latest of the twist and turns that have gone on since may 24th of last year. he came out the
night that fotis died and he was to continue the civil case but the criminal case and a lot of legal
experts that we spoke to our kind of dumbfounded by this because had to continue a criminal
case if your suspect is no longer here but he ss he wants the estate of fotis dulos go on, he
wants to clear his client name emma we will wait to see if that has been done, it has never been
done before. his attorney wants to continue it, we will see if it comes to fruition. >> opse
humus trial. this story has me reading to all hours of the night, jennifer's body has never been
found but fotis le behind a suicide note. didn't say anying or leave any clues behind as to where
jennifer might be? >> it was a lengthy note and essentially proclaiming his innocence saying he
had nothing to do with it, saying his girlfriend had nothing to do with it. his friend he was
arrested also had nothing to do with it, telling his children that he loves them but everything, in
his rds, has their limits. he ended the note apologizing to this new character involved in the
saga. this woman from north carolina who apparently paid fotis patrisse cullors' latest bond
who was seen at his house the day that he committed suicide. no clues, a lot of unanswered
questions and fotis patrisse cullors died proclaiming his innocence.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 19 • 1:30 PM

B_FEB_WASH_50

the Senate narrowly approved setting up the office a firearm safety and violence prevention
Republicans called for more emphasis on suicide Prevention is part of gun violence to peace
senator John Braun want to add that to the agency's role one sentence in the intense section
this was a 79% of all firearm deaths are the result of suicide and it adds to word she says
including suicides Democrat except Vermont Dhingra said other groups are addressing that she
and other Democrats rejected every amendment offered by Republicans say look forward to
61

adopt some of those ideas as this office continues to work that it does Republicans said they
worried the new agency is really aimed at law abiding citizens to Own guns in the House
Democrats approved a Bill to expand background checks still his mask duct of those buying
parts of guns.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 18 • 6:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_51

the civil trial begins today over the deaths of little charlie and brayden how all the two boys
who were murdered by their father Josh Powell 8 years ago at his home in gram he then set the
home of fire and killed himself the boy's mother Susan Cox Powell vanished 3 years earlier and
Josh Powell was suspected in her disappearance Susan para sued over the deaths of the
grandchildren claiming the state Department of Social and Health services ignored red flag
warnings about coming up on the come morning news a comedian is back home after being
confined to a cruise ship I'm brian caliber with how we just walked away it because he needed
to get home.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 19 • 6:40 AM

B_FEB_WASH_52

Prime Minister Tony Abbott says the top level of the Malaysian government long suspected that
the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight 3 70 almost 6 years ago was a mass murder-suicide
by the pilot Abbott was prime minister when the plane vanished in 2014 Malaysia's former
leader and police chief both say there was no soup proof the pilot suicide although it was never
ruled out.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Feb 19 • 10:23 AM

B_FEB_OREG_76

snapchat will have a new feature focusing on mental health. the social media platform is
introducing here for you. it's a new tool aimed at providing mental and emotional health
support for people. the feature will give users the opportunity to reach out to local experts for
resources and when they search certain topics on the app. it also curates content designed to
help the user cope during a difficult time or give advice on how to support a suffering friend. a
new feature has prompted based on searches relating to anxiety, depression, stress, grief,
suicidal thoughts, and bullying. it is set to be released later this year.
KOBI
Feb 19 • 5:24 PM

B_FEB_OREG_77

according to a new research study from emory university.... 1-in-4 opioid overdoses in the u-s
involves kids and teens. the study looked at more than 750- thousand opioid poisoning cases
reported between 2005 and 20-18. 27-percent involved children younger than 19... and a 5th of
these cases were likely suicide attempts. the percentage of youth who died or were admitted to
62

a critical care unit following an opioid overdose ... increased over the study period. infants
exposed to the chemicals in cleaning products are more likely to develop asthma later in life.
that's according to a study published tuesday in the canadian medical journal.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 18 • 6:10 AM

B_FEB_WASH_53

talk to kids and you crisis center in his hometown of jacksonville florida about his battle with
depression which she said included a suicide attempt while he was at the University of South
Carolina her to set to hold a fundraiser next week for that Saturday told first coast news the
mental health illness mental illnesses nothing to be ashamed of you sharing his story will get
others to talk about their problems the new study links later bedtimes to higher risk of obesity
in children Swedish researchers found that two preschool children who regularly went to bed
after 9 had a wider waste and higher body mass index by the end of the study author of the
study said that doesn't mean parents should get their preschoolers into that as early as possible
instead they should focus on keeping regular routine scheduling meals bedtime studies
published in today's edition of the Journal Pediatrics.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 19 • 6:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_54

deadline day for dozens of bills in olympia. if legislation doesn't pass out of original chambers
by 5 today it's not happening. >> so the bill would require businesses and companies that use
or process data of more than 100,000 people to allow people to find out what data about them
is being stored. it would also set rules for companies surrounding facial recognition technology.
another bill would require concealed carry permit holders to do eight hours of training. firearm
storage, state laws, use of deadly force and suicide prevention among other topics. the training
would be sponsored by college or university, firearm training school or nationally recognized
organization that deals with firearms training. so those are the bills that have until tonight to
pass in the chambers. a few bills that have already passed in their original chambers include
one that would increase fines from 137 to $237 for driving in a school zone while using a cell
phone. another bill that has passed would create a new state agency. the office of firearm
safety and violence programs to study gun violence rye and safety.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Feb 19 • 6:21 PM

B_FEB_OREG_78

this is always been a fascinating piece. to take you back to when this first started it was march
8, 2014 when the boeing 777 vanished. it was fly from malaysia to bay sing and presume to
have crashed west of australia. australia coordinated the search. former prime minister says he
was told by the malaysian government the crash was almost certainly a mass murder suicide by
the pilot. >> my clear understanding from top levels of the malaysian government is from very
early on here they thought it was murder/suicide by the pilot. >> they said that to you? >> i'm

63

not going to say who said what to whom, but let me reiterate i want to be absolutely crystal
clear it was understood at the highest levels that this was almost certainly murder/suicide.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 18 • 6:44 PM

B_FEB_WASH_55

the civil trial over the 2012 deaths of charlie and braden powell started today. the boys
grandparents are suing the state department of social and health services training and ignored
red light about their father josh who was under suspicion for the disappearance of the boys
mother. josh ultimately murdered his sons during a supervised visit, set his home on fire and
killed himself.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 19 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_79

we're now learning the death investigation near florence is considered a murder-suicide. kezi 9
news anchor chynna greene joins us live in the studio... with the new information, just released
this afternoon. that's right -- oregon state police say when they arrived on scene -- they found a
75- year-old man in his bed with a gunshot wound to the back of the neck. and his wife next to
him -- dead. the medical examiner officially ruled her death a suicide. troopers arrived on scene
around 6:30 in the morning. they say the man survived being shot in the back of the neck -- and
was taken to peace harbor hospital in florence. we still don't know his condition. lane county
deputies arrived about an hour later -- and took over the investigation. deputies are still
working to find out why this tragedy happened in the first place.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 18 • 8:08 AM

B_FEB_WASH_56

an nfl player is using his platform to try and reduce the stigma of mental illness Baltimore
Ravens tight end hate Hurst talk to some kids at the youth crisis center in his hometown of
jacksonville florida about his battle with depression which included a suicide attempt while he
was a student at the University of South Carolina Hurst is set to hold a fundraiser next week for
that senator he says mental illness is nothing to be ashamed of he hopes the sharing his story
will get others to talk about their own problems.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 19 • 6:04 PM

B_FEB_WASH_57

also, tonight, did child protective services do enough to keep two small boys safe from their
father? grandparents for the two say no, and they are suing for $87 million after josh powell
murdered the two in an explosive fire. kevin mccarty was in court today, he is live now from
tacoma. >> reporter: the grandparents of braden and charlie cox, charlie powell, i should say,
said that child protective services merely handed them over to their father the day they died.
today, and expert witness testified here that there were plenty of signs those boys were in
64

danger. >> they were concerned that josh powell would kill the children. >> reporter: jane
raymond was called as an expert witness by attorneys for the grandparents. a former employee
of the department of social and health services with 40 years’ experience in social work,
raymond testified about what attorneys called numerous transgressions and the failure to
conduct required investigations of josh powell in the months before he murdered his sons and
killed himself in a fiery explosion during a visit supervised by child protective services. >> who, if
anyone, expressed concerns about the boys safety to the department? >> well, there was a lot
of concern expressed about the boys safety. >> reporter: powell was under scrutiny by
investigators in utah and pierce county as well as dh after the disappearance of his wife in 2009.
her body was never found. that investigation revealed evidence that led the state to take
custody of powell's sons away, handing them over to their grandparents. he murdered the boys
february 5th, 2012 for four days after a judge ordered him to undergo a psychosexual
evaluation and polygraph, refusing to return the boys to him. his family says dh at could have
and should have done more to keep those boys safe and the evidence was mounting that
powell had murdered susan cox powell and that his sons, at 7 in 5 years old, were beginning to
talk about it. >> yes, they were making a variety of statements about their mommy, talking
about mommy has been found in the desert. her body has been found in the desert. >>
reporter: lawyers for ds hs says there is no way caseworkers involved in all of this could have
predicted that josh powell was going to murder his sons. those caseworkers are expected to
testify in this trial in the coming days. kevin mccarty, kiro 7 news.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 18 • 4:29 PM

B_FEB_WASH_58

is washington state responsible for the deaths of the children of susan cox that is the question
posed to jurors hearing the case right now in pierce county charlie and braden powell were
killed by their father in a murder suicide at their p wild home back in 2012. the father thinks
he's me. josh. powell was also the prime suspect in his wife's disappearance and murder. susan
cox powell has never been found susan's parents filed suit against our state's department of
social and health services. >> blaming them for the boy's death. q 13 steve kiggins is in tacoma
where opening remarks in that case began today. >> today was a long time coming and an
emotional day in court for the cox family, they heard in excruciating detail, exactly what
happened to those 2 boys but the questionnaires to the state do enough to protect them or
were there murder, solely the fault of their own death what i do she did 2 boys. >> rooted >>
the courtroom was filled with susan cox's family and friends. all waiting to hear opening
remarks more than 10 years after susan went missing. their attorneys’ case was clear the state
should be held responsible and case workers brought the boys to his father's fuel up home that
fateful day they delivered these boys. >> to a house where he was able to take the boys away
from the supervisor, slammed the door in the supervisor states what happened next was
graphic and terrifying. >> the boys were attacked whether father who then blew up his home
killing himself and his sons. but state attorneys claim social workers indeed followed policies
and court orders. plus one of the doctors working on the case have recently just been in contact
with josh 2 days before the murder suicide he had done a full session, the state urges the jury in
a place the blame on the boy's murder directly where it believes it should at the hands of their
65

father essentially the evidence in this case. >> sift through it. recently and watch and not
allowed to be followed it. >> so coming up on q 13 news at 5 o'clock you're going hear from the
state's defense attorney describe to the jury why it believes the dshs had no choice but to allow
josh powell have visitation rights to his 2 sons. in tacoma steve kiggins q 13 news.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 18 • 5:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_80

some high schoolers in eugene are taking a new approach to preventing suicide. and, they're
hoping the "sources of strength" program catches on, with other schools. in tonight's project
safe family: the bethel school district implemented the program at both of its high schools and
all of its middle schools. the key message: hope, help, strength. and today, peer leaders held a
roundtable with u.s. senator ron wyden and health officials.. to talk about how it works -- and
what they need to make it as successful as possible. the idea behind the program is for students
to help other students focus on their strengths and build resiliency. they help spread the
message through social media... that it's okay to ask for help. lily halbrook, 10th grade,
willamette, peer leader social strength: "i think it's opened my eyes more to what my sources
are. and it's helped me identify my sources and helped me focus on those rather than bad
things when i'm having a hard time. and it's also helped me to be able to help my friends with
things they might need or connect them to their sources also." the oregon health authority is
backing the national program. bethel hopes to add it to their elementary schools next year.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 19 • 12:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_59

… or other OLYMPIA can easily find you but my brother go to prison to Yeah Yeah Yeah but I for
before we talk about we might disagree on some things I want to ask both of you what do you
agree on squad I think the second Amendment Foundation were I work my good To earlier of
you know they've been big on suicide Prevention infected Alan Gottlieb he explained champion
day a suicide prevention think I know you were involved in this still more involved and Yeah I
think suicide Prevention as is definitely will put his back up I think the human condition
hopefully such that we all care about the safety of our children our family members our
communities and I'm sure that day does I think that the bigger question is how we define how
we get our Let's get into one topic that's being proposed in Olympia renamed the alliance is
backing a bill to limit high capacity magazines what's the limit the House the hicle has limited 15
the Senate vehicle has the limit at 10 so will cease to the legislative process where we end up
why limit gun magazines that well we know from research that States that have regulations and
high capacity magazines have fewer deaths from mass shootings and there are shootings are
few people died and the shootings in recent polling from elway showed that the state wide is
about 65% approval rating for high-cost magazine regulations so it's Ed evidence driven and it's
backed by a majority of people from across our state and we know will save lives gave large
capacity magazines have been used in all 10 of the deadliest mass shootings in the last decade
there were used in two mass shootings in Washington state why not I am numb or limit them
law I think that the the argument from the people who own them and use me is that you're
66

incurring infringing marjorie to keep and bear arms there's say there's actually retired sheriffs
who is now the CEO for a major what we call a shooting school training facility down in arizona
did a video it's surprising video did magazine capacity limits don't seem to prevent somebody
from new actually blew them off a whole lot around you can change may seems pretty fast and
I think the argument is that did this creates a false sense of security you'll find that a lot of
firearms are made two days no handguns and rifles will accept magazines of greater than 15
nerve me around and a lot of the rifle that are built today come with a standard issue of to a 20
round magazines and frankly there are so many of those magazines out there already are
probably millions of them I'm not sure you can prevent people from having an end and calling
for a ban on them well I think again going back to so to the research that has been done that
shows that it's that actually having regulations on high capacity magazines and States does
reduce harm you dispute that they have a Blue one point to and I saw a story in the real
gunman is Seattle Times word Doe one of the newspapers were one of the supporters of a
magazine Willimon who have lost day I think a daughter down and to be shooting in Santa
Barbara the Isla Vista shooting made the argument we need to do for the magazine limits but
the individual whom created have because they didn't he use California legal 10 round
magazines in that shooting and Talley had it again you've got millions of those magazines out
there already if they were create a real problem a of Linda admit mass shootings we've had and
be and we touched on that and get a little bit but if they were real problem we have a whole lot
more made him out there most of the people who own those things used for target shooting
for competition I know some guys who actually loaded onto prairie dog come with their city
Automatic rifles and you build Wilson on on top of a Hill in the springtime issue Prairie dogs or
hunt coyotes well and so again you have the people misused those things we need to punish
them leave the good guys alone Yes I think I just sort of taking the lens up listen to it it's not
about creating a false sense of security is about people understanding that this is a public
health crisis it's going to take many different solutions to actually get at reducing the number of
people harmed and killed by firearms whether be suicide homicide accidental or mass
shootings and soon reunite putting this forward as a policy that will solve the problem this is a
piece of what we need in terms of policy programming and effective public education Dave
mentioned the the right to bear arms René is a limit on high capacity magazines are you sure
that's the constitution would be upheld Yeah I mean it's been upheld and other parts of the
country so MBAs we have to go on and Yes we have our number of States with high-capacity
magazine bans regulations which is why we have the data about those States actually
experiencing fewer mass shootings and fewer deaths as a result does Washington state have
stronger protections even its constitution in some States my wrong about that I know actually
Washington state's constitutional provision on the right to bear arms the news and was
stronger than the second amendment you think it's going to the U.S. Supreme court in there's
no way of knowing that at this point Yeah I I agree with that because there was a ruling 2018
high a judge down in california did rule magazine limits are unconstitutional what's in the
federal courts now on appeal and I'm not even sure that case going to go to the Supreme court
doesn't accept every case the people asked to review the decide what what cases are going to
accept what cases are just a lot of to stand a bit whatever the District court's know we're the
appeals court said René female firearms instructor testified against limits on high-capacity
magazines and said quote it's a woman's right to own firearms for personal protection because
67

it levels the fight in a personal defense situation it may take more than 10 rounds to stop the
threat what do you say to that Yeah I mean again I think if you look at the data I am having a
firearm in your home owning a firearm does not make you safer in fact make you more likely to
die from domestic violence from suicide and from unintentional so I think that is a false
argument I'm not arguing her feelings around the issue but the data is simply do not back that
up I happen to know a lady who testified in Olympia she's a survivor home invasion and frankly
she's been there she's done that he's got the T-shirt I'd take her word over some polls her
because each instance of self defense is an individual the situation no two are the same and if
he feels safer having say they are 15 or some other semiautomatic firearms that carries more
than 15 rounds in a magazine of why limit that quote White tell her no you can't have that
exciting stuff bad people from committing crimes it's only going to bother law abiding citizens
who would commit the crime of george Bush this is not about banning specific kind of firearm
this is about limiting whether maybe handguns or her lawn guy ends limiting the amount of
lowering the amount of damage they can cause and in a really short period of time there are
ways to address a public health crisis like this and this is one of laws that will help and moving
forward well I'm not sure we have a public health crisis going anywhere you know you are more
firearms and private ownership another 35 or 40 years ago if you again if To shake the FBI crime
statistics the murder rate has gone down quite often the bad guys derision stolen firearms and
violent illegal leak and get them from somewhere else and that would do the same with their
ammunition magazines to go through regular channels to get that stuff Dave a parent of one of
the Sandy hook massacre victims said he supports a large capacity magazine registry in
connecticut but not abandon would you support a registry I'm not sure what that would entail
was that's actually something new to me I have heard that before but again not true sure you
register magazine because they don't have cereal lovers so this is a he a problem said I'm not
sure it's going to have an easy solution sure we would all like to not have to give up on morning
and find out that somebody else has been affected but is somebody misuse firearms I would be
delighted to do that a good I live in the real world not a fantasy world I know that's not gonna
happen we do have a constitution in this in this country and and some 40 state constitutions
that guarantee that protects the right to keep and bear arms and it's nice to say Yeah we can
vote on this we vote on that but no word of Li ever seen where voting is an acceptable solution
to regulating constitutionally delineated bright Yeah I think I just respectfully disagree I don't
live in a fantasy world and I believe very strongly.
KMTR (NBC)
Feb 19 • 6:48 AM

B_FEB_OREG_81

national headlines, the fate of harvey weinstein is now the fate of a new york terry. it began
tuesday in the high profile case charged with one woman and sexually assaulting another. and
consisting that all of them were consensual. stomach a vigil was held to remember the six-yearold who was abducted and killed in south carolina. they say that the young girl is kidnapped and
murdered by them. they were found dead by suicide at his home three days later. they said in a
link to the crime. on tuesday they said that he had died by essex nation during the vigil. they
encourage the crowd to look out for each other.

68

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 18 • 8:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_60

dozens parents Judea and Charles Koch's are suing Washington's Department of Social and
Health services they allege the state failed to protect charlie brady from their father who was
already under investigation for Susan's disappearance February 5th 2012 was to be supervised
visit for the boys with their father for the cps worker was locked out just before josh attacked
the boy's that exploded that House killing them all and I'like to help pay cash cow in the cox's
attorney Anne Bremner said CPS was negligent because they knew the children think he was at
risk Unfortunately one of the key aide worker made it painfully unilateral anything to move the
hate and the home of start how I have for a murder suicide occurred in Washington state will
argue the Josh Powell is liable not DSHS or social workers who cared about those little boys.
KFXO (FOX)
Feb 18 • 4:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_82

according to the sheriff's office, 33- year-old chad bomar committed suicide his cell. jail
deputies s they found him in hi cell right around 10-a-m bomar was convicted last wee of i-d
theft, and was sentenced to 10 days in jail. he was due back in court tomorrow on different
charge ### " staff discovered him on a routine round shortly after breakfast. they went in to do
their routine round and they discovered him unresponsive. they made immediate entry in the
cell to do life saving precautions him.and he did have a cell mat at the time. deschutes county
jail deputies responded to 17 suicide attempts the jail last year. none them die oregon state
police are sti investigating the death.
KDRV (ABC)
Feb 19 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_83

access to mental health resources in oregon can be a major challenge -- as waiting lists often
leave many stuck for extensive lengths of time. kennedy dendy spoke with experts in lane
county to find out the root behind this issue. "i would really like to see access being smoother
for families, because i know there are a lot of people out there who are hurting and stuck and
not getting what they need." mark beach is the director of parent education at the child
center...a springfield group that provides mental health and behavioral resources to children
and families in need. he along with many in lane county says change needs to be made because
it's not uncommon to be stuck on a waiting list for an extensive period of time. "we cant hire
therapists fast enough to be able to keep up with the pace of the need. bridge: mark beach told
me that the suicide rate in oregon is higher than the national average, and in lane county that
rate is higher than the oregon average. he said that this is an issue that desperately needs more
attention. jennifer maclean is the executive director of lane county's national alliance on mental
illness. the center serves those 18 and older...and you do not need to call ahead. "currenly nami
has no waiting list for our program, so all of our programs are peer support groups and family
support groups are drop in." she says that the struggle of insurance and lack of specialists play a
role within the access issue that many would like solved. "our community is struggling for
69

qualified mental health professionals, therapists and counselors." experts say Oregon is one of
the states where people struggle the most with access to mental health resources.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 20 • 11:15 AM

B_FEB_OREG_84

Portugal's parliament has voted in favor of allowing euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide
for terminally ill people the landmark vote today means Portugal is poised to become one of
the few countries in the world permitting procedures however the country's president could
still attempt to block the measure.
KVAL (CBS)
Feb 20 • 6:01 AM

B_FEB_OREG_85

according to sergeant carrie carver, the report came in around 6:00 am from a home north of
florence. when deputies arrived, they found the woman dead and her husband severely
wounded. he was taken to an area hospital where he is being treated for his injuries but
yesterday morning, the medical examiner's office officially ruled the woman's death as a
suicide. >>> the stabbing trial gone on for four weeks and today, the jury will deliberate on the
12 charges that jeremy christian faces. the defense is using self- defense is the motive behind
the stabbings but the prosecution says self-defense is not possible. instead, christian was
looking for a fight and he provoked it. ended with instructions after closing arguments. the
deliberations will begin at 9:00 am this morning. there is no clear timeline for when it will be
finished.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 20 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_86

new information tonight -- in a murder suicide near florence. investigators have identified the
couple involved. they say 71 year old lana terry shot her husband, 75 year old alan terry, before
shooting herself on tuesday. she died, but he survived. there's no word on his condition. some
university of oregon students say they're in shock after a popular bar near campus shut its
doors today. state officials yanked the liquor license for taylor's bar and grill.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 20 • 6:31 AM

B_FEB_OREG_87

new developments in the death investigation near florence. investigators are describing it as an
attempted murder- suicide. oregon state police say when they arrived on scene tuesday
morning... they found a 75- year-old man in his bed with a gunshot wound to the back of the
neck. and his wife next to him -- dead. they say the man survived being shot in the back of the
neck -- and was taken to peace harbor hospital in florence. we still don't know his condition.
lane county deputies have taken over the investigation.

70

FM News 101 KXL
Feb 20 • 7:45 PM

B_FEB_OREG_88

a very tragic story about a woman she died unexpectedly was swimming pool the backyard of
this House and she was filmed drowning in the pool in the backyard of course rumors flew
about why you how she died but the ruble was they heard the man in the House were using a
Ouija board and she asked the Ouija board when she was going to die nobody told her she
dropped acid and killed herself many of the men in the neighborhood had to lift her body out of
the pool my father was one of those men he said he will never forget the terrified look on her
face when he and the rest the man of her cold bloated body.
KOAB (PBS)
Feb 20 • 7:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_89

stephanie: germany reeling after a shooting rampage left nine people dead wednesday night.
the gunman, suspected to have far right ties, opened fire on a hookah bar in an immigrant
neighborhood near frankfurt area he was found dead in his apartment along with his mother.
there has been a surge in extremism in germany. robert paulo has the report. robert: in a small
german city, growing extremism rears its ugly face, nine people shot dead, all believed to be of
a migrant background. the woman running the bar -- this man was running the bar close to the
attack. >> i heard a gunman running and i was in shock. i heard many shots. >> the shootings
took place 20 miles east of frankford. the gunman has been named, he shared his racist views
on social media beforehand as well as in a written manifesto of hate saying certain people
should be exterminated. the authorities admit they did not have the suspect on their radar. it is
the most deadly of recent attacks here in germany and comes days before a plot to hit mosques
around the country was blocked. chancellor merkel pledged to fight those who try to divide her
country. racism is a poison, she said. this poison exists in our cisoety and it is responsible for too
many lives. nmthe guan killed himself and his mother in their house as police closed in. the
federal prosecutor is inveinstigatg if he had liaccompces or if anyone knew ab s out hiplan.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 20 • 4:03 PM

B_FEB_WASH_61

officials in germany say was racial hatred the field to overnight shootings that hookah bars near
Frankford left 9 members of the turkish kurdish community dead the gunman 43 year-old
Tobias rapture and then murdered his mother and killed himself.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 20 • 6:03 PM

B_FEB_OREG_90

cave junction man pleaded guilty after threatening to kill workers add a youtube facility. william
gregory douglas has been in custody for 16 months. he will now have to pay restitution to the
victims. why he could soon be released, for more information visit the ktvl.com. >>> medford
city council is taking up how investigators handle officers involved shootings. they are expected
71

to approve changes recommended from the district attorney's all office. nearly 1/3 of officer
involved shootings in the last two years involved a subject armed with a knife. changes
considered involves duty weapons being turned over to police headquarters instead of at the
scene. other changes include having a companion officers stay with the officer after the
shooting. investigators could ask for a blood or urine test from the officer. >>> new findings in a
jackson county jail death. an inmate was found dead after an apparent suicide. after review it
was determined that correction deputies missed an hourly check. the log requires correction
deputies to check inmates at once an hour and document when they were checked. inmates
with medical problems, on suicide watch are checked every 15 minutes.
KLSR (FOX)
Feb 19 • 10:04 PM

B_FEB_OREG_91

linn county sheriff's office is confirming tonight that a 71- year-old woman shot her husband
and then shot herself, tuesday morning in florence. according to sergeant terry carter, that
came 6:00 am, drove home just north of florence. and deputies arrived, they found the woman
is deceased with a 75-year-old husband wounded. it was taken to an area hospital where he is
still being treated with injuries. this morning condemning county medical examiner's office
officially ruled the woman's death as a suicide.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 20 • 12:45 PM

B_FEB_WASH_62

Connecticut man charged with the murder of his estranged wife wife appeared briefly in court
today you can't bomb when he was in court all 30 seconds entering a plea of not guilty to a
charge of conspiracy to commit murder in connection with the disappearance of Jennifer do
love Molly shaq gold and and attend jumpsuit made no statements he was friends with and
educational attorney for focus to those who died by suicide before I could be fully prosecuted
for the death of his estranged wife DuBose's former girlfriend Michele francona has also been
charged in the case.
KEPR (CBS)
Feb 20 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_63

reporter: the increasing media addiction is also harming teens in their mental health. >> what
we have seen is the increase in suicide is parallel to the introduction of technology and media.
they run parallel. we are seeing girls suffering even more, there's more cutting going on with
young girls, or anxiety, more depression. >> reporter: experts advise parents to keep track and
log their children's media consumption, and how they spend their time. >> we recommended
21 to 28 day detox depending on what information you are reading. 21 day minimum of no
technology at all. no television, not going to the movies, nothing. parents are reporting within
24 to 48 hours of change in child's behavior. >> reporter: between the ages of two and 10 is
when we see the brain developing at the most rapid pace. is when kids should have the most
experience outdoors, instead of using technology. if not, they can run into long- term issues. >>
72

charisma, facial expressions, and a myriad of other things including problem- solving, and being
able to handle complex ideas and thinking strategies. >> reporter: parents should also keep
track of their own media time to set a good example. >> look at your own media use. as a
parent, because how much time that you are spending doing this, what is that replacing? what
connection, what human connection is that replacing? >> the folks at can-do kids tell me they
serve over 100 kids, and are looking to expand their facility, in a larger building with more
outdoor space.
KVAL (CBS)
Feb 20 • 12:02 PM

B_FEB_OREG_92

the lane county sheriff's office has confirmed a 71-year- old woman shot her husband and then
fatally shot herself on tuesday morning over on the coast. according to sergeant carver, the
report came in around six and from home just north of florence. deputies arrived on scene,
they found the woman dead in 75 husband wound in. he was taken to areas was already still
being treated for those injuries yesterday morning, the lane county medical examiner's office
officially ruled that moment death as a suicide.
KVAL (CBS)
Feb 20 • 9:00 AM

B_FEB_OREG_93

our top story the lane county sheriff's office confirmed a 71- year-old woman shot her husband
in a fatally shot herself tuesday morning in florence. the report women around 6:00 am from a
home north of florence. they found the woman dead and her 75-year-old husband wounded
and he was taken to a nearby hospital where he is being treated for his injuries. yesterday, the
medical examiner's office officially ruled the woman's death a suicide.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 21 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_64

news of a man that may be connected to the death of a maple Valley woman drove into a
police parking lot early Friday and killed himself KOMO-TV reports King County sheriff's
deputies went out to the parking lot and found an S.U.V. still running the body of a man nearby
investigators say the S.U.V. was registered to the husband of the woman who was found dead
earlier in the week.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 21 • 4:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_65

detectives say the latest comes after someone called 911 this morning saying a man was on his
way to a sheriff's office precinct to kill himself. but at the time investigators didn't know which
precincts or who made the call did not come from his cell phone from somebody else to
deputies and maple valley search outside the precinct to find a white suv with no one inside
checking around they located a male. >> it was to cease from an apparent suicide. >> still the
73

investigation continues on what happened to the woman found dead wednesday in her home
in maple valley. detectives have yet to talk with her husband we were searching for him huh. >>
yet we were still were trying to contact him to let him know what had occurred, but we haven't
been able to get in contact with them. >> the sheriff's office says it will be releasing the names
of both people once it has more information from the medical examiner's office investigators
say as of right now the woman's death is not being ruled a homicide.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 6:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_66

man shot and killed himself the King County sheriff's precinct in maple Valley overnight
effective identified him as the husband of a woman found dead in her home just days ago I was
at MTV's run decent highs at the scene deputies received a call that someone was coming here
to the precinct and possibly going to kill themselves as we reported this week julie how was
found dead on Wednesday by sheriff's deputies her hair salon called 9.1 Tuesday and
Wednesday asking authorities to check on her since she did not show up for a regular
appointment which was not like her deputies found her body upstairs at home but could not
find her husband Jason how since the discovery they tried to contact him didn't have any luck
now his car is here the King County Sheriff's office precinct and it appears jason how may have
killed himself.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 7:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_67

they got a call around to this morning somebody said a man was on his way here and plan to kill
themselves to of our deputies came out front and located need to wait this TV that was running
in the parking lot I was not occupied after checking around they've located male was cease
from apparent suicide now going to be up to the medical examiner to make a positive I.D. it's a
fact if the husband jason how all of that julie how found dead in their home on Wednesday
afternoon she met the hair appointment salon workers grew worried but her voicemail was her
husband's voice saying they were both really sick with the flu she would be calling back any
time soon they told police that julie had often expressed that she her husband had a very
contentious relationship.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 5:03 PM

B_FEB_WASH_68

the tragic discovery outside King County sheriff's precinct today deputies found an S.U.V. in a
man who died by suicide this incident appears to be linked to the death the 57 year-old julia
how maple Valley woman found dead in her home v s TV does come back to jason how kind
medical examiner will make the final identification on the body found in this section of the Park
lot Julia else case remains open and now investigators are going to try to figure out exactly
what happened to her and her husband.

74

KDRV (ABC)
Feb 21 • 12:51 PM

B_FEB_OREG_94

a viral video showing the impact of bullying has resulted in an outpouring of support for a
young boy in australia. nine-year-old quaden bayles lives with dwarfism and has been bullied at
school. on tuesday, his mother posted a video of him sobbing, saying he wanted to kill himself,
which his mother says he has attempted in the past. the clip has been viewed millions of times,
triggering a global outpouring of support, including from actor hugh jackman. comedian brad
williams, who also lives with dwarfism, set up a go-fund-me page to send bayles and his mother
to disneyland in california. as of yesterday morning, it had raised over 2-hundred-21 thousand
dollars.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 2:30 PM

B_FEB_WASH_69

sheriff's office spokesman Ryan Abbott says they got a call shortly before two a.m. from
someone who said a man was coming to the sheriff's Department and was possibly going to kill
himself deputies found messi the in the parking lot and then discovered a man's body teen miss
TV and so you already said the playoff it does come back to jason how if you remember on
Wednesday we were working on a death investigation at his residence officials have not
released a cause of death for 57 year-old julie how the medical examiner will officially confirm if
the man who killed himself is in fact her husband.
KINK Radio
Feb 21 • 6:28 AM

B_FEB_OREG_95

wrenching story of Queen in Bales' his 9 year-old Australian boy was born the form of dwarfism
he's suicidal because of bullying he subjected to school claims mom was so Fed up she posted a
video of her son crying saying he wants to kill himself song she also asked for suggestions
because apparently nothing she tried to stop the bullying all good news is a lot of celebrities
were about Quaid struggles they posted videos are equating including Hugh Jackman and
Jeffrey D Morgan activity Morgan you know him from the walking dead he was also on grey's
anatomy okay Here's what they had to say quite you're stronger than you know and it's been a
different name so everyone was pleased the cotr each other a bully you believe it is not okay
purity I want you to know what is your current being mood Ah you have a bunch of village of
Qaa in the world you we're back and we can do better I promise I will do anything in their suites
old comedian Brett williams was also little person started a GoFundMe to equate to disney land
which is an excellent idea I asked for 10000 $ he's raised over a 100000 flowers fantastic you
like a tribute to search for the son GoFundMe com quote Let's send a wonderful kid disney land
of that struggle it's better I just love these people these famous people reaching out to him to
let him know that don't worry about these small idiots.

75

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 21 • 5:02 PM

B_FEB_WASH_70

new details, investigators towed away the suv belonging to the husband of the woman found
dead inside her maple valley home. investigators say he killed himself this morning. alison
grande is live at the sheriff's office and maple valley where his body was discovered. >>
reporter: jason howell had parked his suv in this space right here, it was still running and his
body was on the ground next to it. deputies came outside to check this parking lot, after
someone called 911 to warn them that a man planned to kill himself outside one of the king
county precincts. this is a strange turn in this death investigation. >> just sat. you know, they
were sweet people. she was a very sweet person. >> reporter: tosha and her family live two
doors down from the howls. deputies found julia howell dead in the home on wednesday. >>
she was kind and smart, loving. >> reporter: detectives wanted to talk to her husband, jason
howell, about her suspicious deaths. before they could, he killed himself in the parking lot of
the king county sheriff's office and maple valley. >> we have received a call into our
communications center that there was a male coming to one of our police precincts to possibly
kill himself. >> they say that call did not come from howell. >> two of our deputies came out
front and located a white suv. he was running in the parking lot. they located a male who is
deceased from appearances side. >> reporter: julia howell had not been seen for days. she did
not show up for her monthly her apartment at a salon in bellevue. >> we just knew something
was up. she just has never missed an abutment. >> reporter: neighbors cannot make sense of it.
they say jason howell was a kind of guy who offered to cut their lawn. the archuleta family
showed me the thank you note julia sent them for their rice crispy treats they gave her at
christmas. >> it is unexpected and it is always sad when somebody unexpectedly passes. and so
we are just kind of rallying together right now and hoping to honor her. and honor them. >>
reporter: detectives are still investigating jason howell's connection to his wife's death. one
main thing they need to figure out is the medical examiner is working to figure out how she
died. that call to 911 overnight came from someone jason howell told about his plans to kill
himself. alison grande, kiro 7 news.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 21 • 6:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_71

well they're just lifting the police tape the kind of surrounded the maple valley precinct here
the king county sheriff's office and they have opened up to 31st once again you're just off the
maple valley i way that's good news for drivers here, but they are still investigating the death of
a man outside the king county sheriff's precinct here in maple valley we're told happened
around 2 o'clock this morning. dispatch center received call that a man was on his way here to
kill himself. they don't believe that call came from the man himself, but when 2 deputies came
out here, they found a white suv running nearby found a man dead from an apparent gunshot
wound other waiting to identify the man but they do tell us the vehicles registered to the
husband of a woman who was found dead in home near here 2 days ago after her hairdresser
apparently contacted police when she missed an appointment investigators have been looking
for that has been discovered her body same. they wanted to talk to him they haven't been able
76

to contact him they are telling us though again the call this morning warning that he was on his
way here to kill himself did not come from him. >> and did not come from his cell phone from
somebody it was i don't know all of the details of it, but it was pretty vague which is why we
checked all of our different location. >> so investigators now want to find out who did call them
they've got to death investigations linked to the same household here. this morning the woman
earlier this week over now the apparent suicide of a man. >> outside the maple valley precinct
here can county sheriff's office again that is just be on the trees here in just the last couple
minutes they have lifted up the police tape here everything is back open again including to 31st
off the maple valley highway with the investigation into this whole situation continues.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 21 • 6:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_72

we are staying on top of breaking news. deputies are connecting a death in their parking lot to
the death of a maple valley woman. >> ranji sinha is all over this you. getting updates from
deputies out there and you just watched the suv get towed away? >> reporter: yeah, they just
removed it from the parking lot in the last 5 minutes. we were able to come around the corner
now that 231st street is now open. in this parking lot that is where the suv was parked and
according to the sheriffs office, around 2 a.m. deputies got a call that a man was coming here to
kill himself. if we pan across the area, this is where deputies marched out and found the man
dead outside of the suv and the suv is registered to jason howell. the husband of julia howell
who was found dead a few days ago. as we reported julia howell was found dead. her hair salon
called 911 twice. tuesday and wednesday asking authorities to check on her. deputies found
her body at home and tried to contact her husband and have not been able to do that. now his
car arrives here at the king county sheriffs office and it appears he may have killed himself here
and let's listen to what played out this morning. >> the suv, i know some of you checked the
plate on it. it does come back to a jason howell. if you remember on wednesday we were
working on a death investigation at his residents. >> the medical examiner will be out here and
abbot did say it was someone else not jason howell to alert them of the possible suicide
attempt. roads have been blocked but they reopened 231st street. but still a lot of questions to
be answered what happened right here in maple valley. the incident is clearly linked to the
incident involving julia howell. they were married and lived a few miles from here and her
death remains an open case.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 21 • 7:02 PM

B_FEB_WASH_73

county detectives revealed a husband of a woman found dead in a maple valley home killed
himself. jason howell's body was found next to his suv in the parking lot of the sheriffs precinct
in maple valley. detectives wanted to talk to him about julia howell's death at their house. they
received a 911 call saying someone was coming to one of the precincts to commit suicide.
neighbors in the house told us they cannot make sense of it. >> unexpected. it is always sad
when somebody unexpected the passes. and so we are just kind of rallying together right now

77

and hoping to honor her and honor them. >> detectives are waiting on the medical examiner to
reveal how julia howell died.
KONG-SEA
Feb 21 • 8:34 AM

B_FEB_WASH_74

breaking news in maple valley we have been talking about this throughout the morning, a man
apparently shot and killed himself outside a sheriff creasing . police say he is connected to a
woman who died in maple valley this week. what can you tell us about this? >> reporter: still so
many questions for investigators in all of this. you might remember a few days ago they have
this death investigation here in maple valley. an interesting case because it was actually
triggered by the woman's hair stylist. she called when the woman didn't show up for a february
5 appointment. they kept calling her because she said she was a regular customer and came in
every four weeks. she always called. when she didn't show up they became very concerned. the
sheriff's department went out and checked out the home and initially didn't see anything
wrong and went back a second time because the people were so concerned of her safety. they
found the woman dead inside her home, julia how . they were looking for this woman's
husband, they wanted to talk to him about the death investigation. then fast forward to early
this morning when they got a strange call in the communication center. somebody said her
husband, was headed out to a sheriff's pre- seen and he was going to commit suicide. they did
not know which ones. they searched several locations including the one in maple valley, sadly
they found a vehicle running next to where they found an apparent self- inflicted gunshot
wound to the head. they believe that is the husband. the medical examiner did come out here
and take the body. will be the medical examiner to make the final determination. the vehicle is
a white suv . it is registered to that home, the husband. there is still so much information they
do not know in this case. they need to go back and figure out what led up to all of this. put all
the pieces together about what wrapped up here and that death investigation over at the home
here in maple valley.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 9:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_75

man killed himself right from the sheriff's office precinct in maple Valley this morning the
vehicle driven by demand is registered the husband of the woman found dead in her Maple
Valley home on Wednesday comes carly johnson has this is the King County sheriff's precinct
just tough one 69 at the corner of choose 31st medical examiner has taken the man's body of
the S.U.V. he drove in with has been towed away Ryan habit with the sheriff's office says the
run to this morning they got a call from someone saying man was on his way to the sheriff's
office to take his own life still working to identify who that color what this did not come from
his cellphone camera somebody else and it was I don't know all the details of that but it was
pretty day which is why we checked all the different location the S.U.V. is in the name of jason
how will the husband a 57 year-old julie how found dead in her home on Wednesday she
missed her appointment salon workers got worried because that never happened and

78

voicemail on her phone was her husband saying they both got sick with the flu it would be a
while before she could call back get the emmy will make the final identification in maple Valley.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 21 • 6:31 PM

B_FEB_WASH_76

reporter: tonight is apprising new twist in the investigation of a woman found dead inside her
maple valley home. deputies say the man who shot and killed himself outside a sheriff precinct
this morning is connected to that dead woman. tammy reports on the investigation that keeps
building. >> we did not excited to go this route. >> reporter: the definition of a 57-year-old
woman took a minute to turn when investigators say this white suv registered to her husband
turned up at the maple valley precinct around 2:00 a.m. nearby, they found a man who had
shot and killed himself. >> we are all really saddened, and want to respect the privacy of
everybody involved, and, all of us come together to honor the memory of our neighbors. >>
reporter: deputies a moment before they found the man's body a man called to say someone
was coming to a precinct to kill themselves. >> we know that the car was registered to jason
howell. >> reporter: deputies have been looking for the women's husband after they found her
body. despite what happened and who did it, you know? what happened to her? >> reporter:
hairdresser told me yesterday they called 911 after she missed her appointment two weeks
ago. then they heard a voicemail message >> with how long it's been, i mean there's questions
about everything. we don't know anything at this point but we have our suspicions. >> reporter:
deputies say they went to the couple's home a few years ago for a domestic dispute, but by
most accounts neighbors say the couple was kind and helpful, making detectives work more
challenging as they work to find out what really happened inside that home. he >> we have so
many questions, and then we have different things that keep happening and we still can't
answer the first question so it makes it even harder for us to try to explain.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 21 • 5:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_77

a man that may be connected to the death of a maple Valley woman found dead in her home
Wednesday drove into a police station parking lot early this morning and killed himself that's
according to the King County sheriff's office KOMO-TV reports that one 50 a.m. a man called 9.1
the say somebody was coming to the King County sheriff's office maple Valley precinct killed
themselves according to the Department spokes spokes person Sergeant Ryan am but deputies
went out to the parking lot in an S.U.V. still running and the body of a man nearby investigators
determined the vehicle the man drove then was registered to the hospital the woman who was
found dead Wednesday the man's identity has not been confirmed but added says it appears
that the man had shot himself.

79

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 21 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_78

this suv being towed away belong to the husband of a woman found dead in their maple valley
home. that husband is no longer missing. tonight, detectives say he called himself. alison
grande is live at the king county sheriff's office in maple valley. >> reporter: investors here
wanted to talk to jason howell but before they could, he killed himself over there in the parking
lot, leaving even more unanswered questions. his white suv was found running, his body was
on the ground. investigators wanted to talk with him after his wife, julia howell, was found
dead inside their maple valley home on wednesday. she was trying to -- >> you know, it is
unexpected. it is always sad when someone unexpectedly passes. we are just kind of rallying
together right now and hoping to honor her. and honor them. >> reporter: investigators do not
know where jason howell went after his wife julia's body was found inside their house. that
happened on wednesday, after she failed to appear to a hairstylist appointment in bellevue.
that hair salon called 911, they actually sent deputies to the house, that is when they found her
body inside. we do not know where jason howell had been for the last maybe two weeks.
investigators have been trying to contact him, and they couldn't. and that is when they found
his body here in the parking lot early this morning. but they got a call overnight that had been
rattled. they got a call saying a man plans to give himself that one of the king county sheriff's
offices in the area. it turned out to be here, and investigators say it was jason howell. we are
still working to find out how his wife died. alison grande, kiro 7 news.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 7:10 AM

B_FEB_WASH_79

9 year-old Australian boy who said he wanted to kill himself because of bullying is fighting he
has a lot of celebrity support the boy's name is Queen and Bales was born with the condition
that causes dwarfism and was filmed by his mother crying and saying that he wanted a knife so
he could kill himself fellow Australian actor Hugh Jackman was just one of those offering his
support through video went Twitter coy you strongly Nina night and it's a different name so
everyone was pleased the collage of a bullying is not okay period actor Jeffrey D Morgan also
told equating it is going to get better and he's got a lot of friends out there who have back eric
Trump and megan kelly also sent messages of support for people around the world already
donated more than 140000 dollars.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 8:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_80

a news man killed him Gulf earlier today in the parking lot of the King County Sheriff's
Department in maple Valley authorities told KOMO news it may be the husband of a woman
found dead in her Maple Valley home on wednesday Here's Carly Johnson the S.U.V. driven into
this parking lot does belong to jason how whose wife julie was found dead in their home
Wednesday afternoon Ryan habit with the King County sheriff's office says they've been no
word on his whereabouts since Chile was discovered dead in an upstairs room there home we
80

were searching for him they were trying to contact them to let them know what I heard we
lived in contact with them Ms. a lot workers got word about julie when she failed to show up at
a regular appointment when they called the salon workers got voice mail her phone had her
husband's voice I think they were sick with the flu and she couldn't talk to detectives Julia had
spoken about a strained relationship with her husband the any will have to confirm the identity
of the man who killed himself here today in maple Valley.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 21 • 6:19 AM

B_FEB_OREG_96

keeping track of that case from our sister station komo news giving you a different angle there
at the maple valley sheriff substation, talking about a king county sheriff's department dealing
with a death investigation. they're investigating the death of a march who killed himself in his
car at the sheriff's office. the report say that car belonged to the husband of a 57-year-old
woman who was found dead inside her maple valley home on wednesday. we're keeping track
of this investigation at the katu live desk.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 6:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_81

another man killed himself earlier today in the parking lot of the King County sheriff's office and
maple Valley others this is suspicion that he may be the husband of the woman found dead in
her home on wednesday we get the update live from the scene near camas carlene johnson he
voted for Mr. is precinct number 3 often to 31st maple Valley highway we are now much closer
to the scene right in front of the parking lot where a man pulled up and dance TV earlier this
morning God out and killed himself now the S.U.V. which is just been towed away it doesn't
belong to jason howling his wife Julia was found dead in their home Wednesday afternoon him
right now but with the King County sheriff's office says there's been no word on the
whereabouts of days and telling him his wife was found dead on Wednesday we were searching
for him we were trying to contact them to let them know what occurred we have been able to
get in contact with them Yeah how it was so long workers and Bell you about worried about
Joey when she failed to show up for her up play much they called an hour after authorities to
do a welfare check and then that discovery of her body inside they have also told authorities
that yulia often talked about a contentious relationship with her husband.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_82

since a woman was found dead inside her home in Maple Valley this week detectives had been
trying to track down her husband this morning it appears that search ended in the parking lot at
the King County Sheriff's office just off state route one 69 sheriff's office spokesman Ryan
Abbott says I got a call shortly before to this morning from someone who said a man was
coming to the sheriff's Department and was possibly going to kill himself deputies found an
S.U.V. in the parking lot and then discovered a man's body for need best TV and saw Uri sector
81

played on it does come back to jason how bad you remember on Wednesday we were working
on a death investigation at his residence officials have not released a cause of death for 57
year-old julie how all the medical examiner will officially confirm if the man who killed himself
his her husband.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 21 • 9:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_83

all right i want to take you back now to a story that we've been following all morning for you a
man was found dead at the king county sheriff's precinct, this was a maple valley so
investigators are connecting this to a woman's death earlier this week john hopper status is live
on the scene this morning you've learned some new details this morning john. >> well bill
investigators are saying that what happened here in this parking lot early this morning could be
connected to the mysterious death of a maple valley woman not far from here earlier this week
we're told around 2 this morning dispatch center received a call that a man was on his way here
to the maple valley precision of king county sheriff's office to kill himself now they don't believe
that call came from the man himself, but when 2 deputies came out here they did find a white
suv it was running in nearby, they found a man dead from a gunshot wound right here in the
parking lot eventually towed that suv away another waiting to identify the man here but they
do tell us that vehicle is registered to the husband of a woman who was found dead in home
near here earlier this week investigators they've been looking for that has been since
discovering her body saying they wanted to talk to him, they have not been able to contact him
as of yet so investigators now want to find out who called them this morning to warn them that
someone was on the way here to kill themselves. and now they've got to death investigations
that could be linked to one household here in maple valley course this investigation just getting
under way here.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 21 • 8:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_84

a man was actually found dead in king county sheriff's precinct, this was a maple valley now
investigators are connecting this to a woman's death in the same town earlier this week and
john hopper said is at the scene there. >> and we're getting some new information through the
morning john. >> one unusual situation here bill where deputies come out and find a man next
to his parked car of an apparent gunshot wound right here in the parking lot of the maple valley
preceded the king county sheriff's office they got that call around 2 o'clock this morning from
somebody saying that this man was on his way here to kill himself now we've got some shots of
that white suv were talking about they searched they went through quite a while and they
towed it away out of the scene. we're told the deputies came out here they found that white
suv was still running and they found them and it from a gunshot wound. they are waiting to
identify the man here but tell us the vehicles registered to the husband of a woman was found
dead in home here in this area 2 days ago after her hairdresser contacted police because she
missed an appointment now investigators say they had been looking for that husband. since
discovering her bodies and they wanted to talk to him they have not been able to contact him
82

so investigators now want to find out who called them this morning saying that this person was
on the way as they continue their investigation there that home in maple valley where that
woman's body was found, but again. vehicle belonging to her husband found here earlier this
morning, the maple valley precinct. >> the king county sheriff's office and then the also
discovered next to the self-apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound that car registered to the
husband of that woman and that maple valley house guys are.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 8:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_85

A man was found shot to death this morning the parking lots of the King County sheriff's office
the maple Valley it with law enforcement believe was an act of suicide casey PQ TV reports the
man's car was registered to the husband of a woman who was found dead in her Maple Valley
home on Wednesday investigations are underway.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Feb 21 • 6:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_97

when should a loved one be able to force a relative to get mental health treatment? a clark
county mother said that her son story proves that the current law makes it hard to get help.
here's more on that story from drew mikkelsen. >> reporter: calvin is a surfer, college student ,
and a state champion public speaker. he also had a serious mental illness and his mother said
he couldn't get him any help. calvin was 23 years old when he died by suicide. his mother said
that calvin suffered from mental illness from the age of 18. he was acting out, he tried killing
himself. because he was an adult she could not force them into treatment. the state only allows
involuntary commitment. >> i had crisis responders tell me that he is clearly not well, but that
he doesn't meet the criteria under the law and now he is gone. >> reporter: relatives can only
have loved ones committed if they can prove that there's a problem with routine functioning. a
proposed law would lower the threshold to a lack of safe behavior. >> they wanted me take
medication, and i was put in restraints and dried. >> reporter: other say the law should be kept
the same. defense attorneys say that current facilities do not have the room for additional
patients. and that sending somebody away would lead to civil right violations. >> people have
lost jobs and houses and college kids have dropped out of school. >> i was told it's not illegal to
be psychotic. until he's dangerous there's nothing we can do. >> reporter: jenny clark said that
her son would have to hurt someone to get help. she hopes that legislators act before someone
else gets hurt. >> seriously ill individuals are falling through the cracks. >> reporter: they said a
family member can request a commitment, but it's only allowed after an independent
investigation. reporting live in olympia, drew mikkelsen, kgw news.

83

KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 21 • 7:03 PM

B_FEB_WASH_86

right now renton police need your help locating a homicide suspect accused of shooting
someone at a homeless camp. police say kelsey ann gornowich shot the victim in the chest
following an argument at a trance ant camp. photos been release third 30- year-old suspect,
and police say she frequently change herself hair and clothing styles. she is 5'8", and goes the
street name loki. she is known to frequent renton area transient camps. if you see her, you're
asked to call 911. >>> detectives have arrested a man in connection with a homicide
investigation. hikers found the body of a 21- year-old Diana Lopez last week on the olympic
peninsula. police believe that Alejandra jessie rojas of renton killed her. they say the two were
dating and he requests dodd killing her, hitting her in the head with a bottle during a fight. >>>
dead man found this morning is connected to the death ever to a woman in maim valley earlier
this week. authorities say it appears to be the woman's husband. natalie reports on stress. >>
reporter: the sheriff's office is working to learn more about these two death investigations. they
are waiting on the mill employer to provide an update to confirm identity asks cause of death.
what we do know is this morning this precinct parking lot became a crime scene. the king
county sheriff's office says just before 2:00 a.m., a calm came in, claiming that a man was
coming in to one of the police precincts to possibly harm himself. deputies at the maple valley
precinct came out front and saw a white be suv with the engine running in the parking lot. >> it
was not occupied. after checking around, they located a male who was deceased from an
apparent suicide. >> reporter: sergeant Ryan abbott said the vehicle is registered to jason
howell. it's the same vehicle purchased in this google match image of howell's home. a home
that police were recently at. and there on Wednesday, we were working on a death
investigation at his residence. >> reporter: an investigation that started because jason howell's
wife had missed a hair appointment at a la is a loan in Bellevue, and that caught the attention
of the manager. >> her stylist was really concerned she didn't show up for an appointment. >>
reporter: they called her maple valley home, but no one picked up. there was just a voice mail
recorded by a man that said she and julie were quote feeling quite bad. we have the flu or
something first earious, so please pardon our delay in responding. police found the 57-year-old
woman diseased on the second are new of the home. they had been looking for her husband,
jason howell. now there is this crime scene with a deceased man that police believe to be jason
and his car in the parking lot, but it's a case that still has so many unanswered questions.
deputies have searched the howell's home. neighbors tell us the couple of kept to themselves.
we are just waiting to learn the latest from the medical examiner.
KFFX (FOX)
Feb 21 • 9:41 AM

B_FEB_WASH_87

what you are about to see is the top trending story day... showing ese power of kindness.
people around the world are reaching out to a little boy with dwarfism. hi after he was bullied r
his condition n qck nats of boy crying... the 9-year-s yd's mother the 9-year-old's mother post
this video Facebook showing c quaden sobbing in the back of her car. she posted the video to
raise awareness g about the impact of bullying and spd her son had previously attempted
84

suicide. the video r has been vied more than 19 million times and sparkedan outpouring of
worldwide support for the bullied ngoboy, incriding from celebrities and athletes. 0:00-0:08:
quadeyou are stronger than you know.. you've got a friend in me. th among them is a
Australian actor hugh jackman, who posted a video go message s supporting quadea go-fund
me coge set up by comedian br williams has raised - almost $170-thousand-dollars. he's using
the money to send r quaden and his mother to Disneyland.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 21 • 6:05 AM

B_FEB_OREG_98

investigators have identified the couple involved in an attempted murder suicide near florence.
they say 71-year-old lana terry shot her husband, 75-year-old alan terry, before shooting
herself on tuesday. she died, but he survived. there's no word on his condition.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 21 • 7:00 AM

B_FEB_WASH_88

a young man who was being bullied is now finding love coming his way from all over the world
has been quite an outpouring for a 9 year-old Australian boy was dwarfed ISM those video
about being a bully his gone viral and Creighton Bales talks about ending his life his mother is
worried about constantly take my eye because of the suicide of hands this is bullying does paid
actor Hugh Jackman is among the celebrities who posted support slate us stronger than in men
and women.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 21 • 11:03 AM

B_FEB_WASH_89

hundreds of thousands of dollars raised online so far for a bully boy has been quite an
outpouring for a 9 year-old Australian boy with dwarfism whose video about being a bully it has
gone viral I am and I am now my Creighton Bales talks about ending his life his mother is
worried about constantly Kate my name because of the suicide attends this is what bullying
does he pulled actor Hugh Jackman is among the celebrities who posted support slate use only
need eye and ask them what you there friend named Steve.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 21 • 6:31 AM

B_FEB_WASH_90

good morning, just a few minutes ago the sheriff's investigators were able to clear the scene
here outside of the substation in maple valley. let's talk about how the situation unfolded. if i
remember earlier this week there was the death investigation involving the woman whose
hairstylist alerted authorities when she missed her hair appointment they became concerned
and said she was a very regular client, wasn't like her, they called the sheriff's deputies and
went to the home and found her dead inside the home, at the time they said they were looking
for the woman's husband, they weren't calling him a suspect but they were calling this a death
85

investigation so they wanted to speak with him, that was just a few days ago and then fast
forward to early this morning when they got a strange call of their communication center. they
said the man in 911 caller said he was going to a sheriff station to commit suicide. they had
deputies go out several substations all over king county and here is what unfolded outside of
the substation here in maple valley. >> two deputies came out and located a white suv. it was
running in the parking lot. it was not occupied. after checking around, they located a male who
was deceased from apparent suicide. >>> that suv is registered to jason howell, the husband of
the woman julia howell found dead inside her home earlier this week. the medical examiner is
going to confirm the identity of the body found next to that. they have towed the vehicle away
from here less than five minutes ago. the medical examiner will make the official determination
still so many questions in all of this still determining what led up to both of these deaths.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 11:20 AM

B_FEB_WASH_91

I want to turn now to the problem of online bullying so British TV star Caroline flak died by
suicide last weekend she faced some pretty intense scrutiny online over allegations that he
assaulted her boyfriend and a few days after her death 18 year-old singer Billy I relished spoke
to the bbc about how she has stopped reading instagram comment about herself because of
the effect it was having on her.
KTVL (CBS)
Feb 20 • 11:03 PM

B_FEB_OREG_99

tonight new findings in a jackson county jail death probe. 28-year-old scott lee ashbaugh was
found dead in his cell november 4 in an apparent suicide by hanging. sheriff nathan sickler says
after review it was determined, corrections deputies missed an hourly check, but he says it's
unclear if that would have made a difference. oregon law requires corrections deputies to
check each inmate at least once an hour, and document when exactly they were checked.
inmates with medical problems on suicide watch, or at-risk of violent behavior are checked
every 15 minutes.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 8:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_92

A man was found shot to death this morning the parking lots of the King County Sheriff's office
maple Valley it with law enforcement believe was an act of suicide PCP cute TV reports the
man's car was registered to the husband of a woman who was found dead in her Maple Valley
home on Wednesday investigations are underway.

86

KEPR (CBS)
Feb 21 • 11:08 PM

B_FEB_WASH_93

reporter: the increase in media addiction is also hurting teens and their mental health. >> we're
seeing the increase in suicide is parallel to technology and media. we're seeing girls affected
even more. >> reporter: experts advise parents to keep track and monitoring their media
consumption. >> we recommend a 21-day detox. so 21 day minimum of no technology at all.
and parents are reporting within 24 to 48 hours a change in their child's behavior. >> reporter:
we see the brain developing as certain ages instead we see kids heading out the doors. >> facial
expression and problem solving and being able to handle complex ideas. >> reporter: parents
should also keep track of their media time. to look at how much time you're spending as a
parent. what human connection is that replacing?
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 24 • 7:29 AM

B_FEB_WASH_94

we're still waiting for an official id on the man who police say killed himself in the parking lot.
>> of the sheriff's precinct in maple valley last week that man believed to be the husband of a
woman found dead inside her home a couple of days ago, but we're still waiting for official
confirmation from the medical examiner to confirm all of that. both of those deaths are still
under investigation.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 22 • 11:02 PM

B_FEB_WASH_95

the search for maple valley men took a grim twist this morning. they found his wife dead inside
the home. police launched a manhunt for jason howell after they kicked in the front door
during a welfare check. they found the body of his life julia, lying face down. >>> deputies got a
call wanting them the man was headed to the king county precinct in maple valley. >> be
located a white suv that was running in the parking lot. they located a male that was deceased
from an apparent suicide. >> detectives hoped to question how. the next step is wait for the
medical examiner to determine how she died.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 24 • 6:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_96

we're still waiting to hear from the medical examiner here in king county. >> about the identity
of a man who authorities say killed himself in the parking lot of the sheriff's office in maple
valley. so the suv next to the man's body is also registered to the husband of a local woman
whose body was found inside her home earlier in the week. her death also still under
investigation. so this morning medical examiner's office still has an confirmed the body actually
found by the sheriff's office in that parking lot is indeed that woman's husband, so we'll keep
you posted on that.

87

KLSR (FOX)
Feb 24 • 7:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_100

meltdowns at dr. lance in the slocum staff is in limbo this week volunteering his skills at a clinic
in the hospital. >>> we see a lot of anxiety, kids that have some depression, some suicidal
ideation, suicidal thoughts, also kids who are part of broken homes and have a lot of issues with
family members and parents. we see a lot of those kids. >> children and families in mableton
and florence now have new research centers for behavioral health and counseling. they can be
found at mableton middle school and solid slot elementary school. the superintendent said
there has been a shortage of healthcare providers and traveling the long distance to urban
centers can be families in rural areas can face a lot of challenges getting the behavioral
healthcare that they need.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 22 • 8:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_97

the king county medical examiner hopes to figure out how a maple valley woman died by
sometime next week. her death investigation has detectives puzzled after a new twist in the
case. early friday morning a man killed himself outside of the king county sheriff's office
precinct in maple valley. his body was found near an suv registered to the husband of the
woman found dead in a home on wednesday. now investigators are trying to figure out exactly
what happened. >> we have so many questions, and then we have different things that keep
happening and still can't answer the first question. that makes it even harder to try to explain.
>> deputies say they went to the home a few years ago for a domestic dispute, but most
neighbors told us the couple was kind and helpful.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 8:13 PM

B_FEB_WASH_98

this hour we're all going to get some therapy that's right we're talking about mental health will
hear how virtual reality is being used here we go over bathroom with virtual reality film for him
put a person In all wars ran through simulations mimic what they went through and we think
our customers should and real power we're leaving here how the answer might lie in the use of
magnets here what we do is with the magnetic field with that hits rain makes the nerves in the
brain activity and by going in and using sort of his pinpoint targeting we can restore those areas
that aren't functioning correctly to essentially there are now almost status and we'll hear about
madness from the trenches of the V.A. and devoted social worker who spent 15 years treating
our veterans and helping them fight things like addiction suicide and PTSD he kept the faith he
worked it staying sober and occasionally in my lap here for the V.A. I would be on the phone
with him conducting different Manning you know one of my top rope here it's all ahead this
hour on CBS I on veterans now in our next segment we'll talk about a new treatment for PTSD
uses virtual reality to help veterans confront the painful memories that are linked to their
posttraumatic stress thanks in part to the popularity of gaming virtual reality therapy appeals to
some veterans who might normally shy away from the traditional talk based therapy and here
88

to talk to us about that is Dr Albert Skip Rizzo the director of medical virtual reality of the
Institute for creative technology at the University of southern California the dog Yeah I'm doing
well really glad to have you as I saw this I don't I guess we saw the same somewhere online last
month I saw headsets and isow aa veterans and the video game looking re-enactments of
certain scenarios talk to me about VR therapy all their truck sweet cake in this type of
treatment and she used virtual reality has a way to create and emotionally evocative career
with the patient where they're encouraged to go back and get in front and rear process difficult
emotional memories from the trauma experiences not paid they can handle and this is in its
traditional format is called prolonged exposure to trauma focus treatment that has a pretty
good evidence although there's some controversy about its full effect in the us and other issues
we drew is insured rewired Shuler so I'm imagination where the patients are closing our eyes
and married her experiences of they're going through it right then and there I we pretty
expansive for virtual reality system we can put the person he N Y grant to of simulations stuck it
mimicked what they went through and we can customize the in real time so in this process
space through the patient repeatedly goes back to the scene of the crime if you will but that
case they can handle while the clinician has a control panel but Geisha time of day or the
distance of an explosion or Cheddar helicopter flyover and so forth so was to mimic the story of
the patients so I'm I think the artwork that involve the setting was a road in iraq you know an
i.e.d. helicopters over top like how are they able to stitch all that together in the matter of one
clinical session well then the full course of therapy follows storms standard protocol of time
sessions whether they're delivered on a weekly basis of war and mass setting like we're trying
to a treatment area same hotel to brbring morning and do other therapies have command also
the time friend of the therapy may vary but there are no we recommend at least times russians
and with the clinician having hope we like to call it was the Ba Arms control panel I or they can
immediately take the scenario the most relevant for the Clara changed the time of day based
on what they tell you where they are on a foot patrol and be cool were they in turn with a
driver and the passenger a wall what kind of sound effects were growing and the coalition to do
two or 3 key strokes and allows me car search at cal holders story that they might have a a
button with the sound effects of a radio call or explosion often do so and so or thriving under a
bridge state it clear she might have bought Warner an insurgent attack cruz so it's all very
controllable in real time for the clinician true kind mimic what the patients talking about and
the value and this is I was a number of patients it's very hard for them a whole lot some of
these difficult emotional memories because there's not a lot of time trying to avoid taking a
bottom avoided going places remind them of the six-power concerns but cheer and the new
York simulation we can recreate about so it sort of just like an aircraft simulator would test a
trend part of their ability to arrange to control conditions we know the are simulation
deliverymen virtual reality headset own more of the clinicians and pastes big exposure based
on them on a pitch for our clients to me it's now when you go to YouTube been followed Dr.
Skip Rizzo and see some of the videos of his work there when you good soldier strong dot org
it's evident that in some cases it is working but I had to ask kids also be bad for the patient care
even in a recent Journal American medical Association insights they did a study and they said
the only 31% of the patients recovered actually improved after prolonged exposure therapy
and cognitive processing therapy what is it about this particular therapy that might have better
odds you know I read but Jim Harter or Wow and they didn't call any of these are starting Smith
89

and wind power couple of studies showing and brother quarter results beat you know and I
think it's harder than maybe they need with some clients are going through this kind of trauma
focus therapy if they're also processed or better the reward about this said avoiding say don't
really need cage and emotion some memory because of special the harm meant to improve our
problem there's no doubt of this and not just zero talk about the future forget about the paths
the choose day and OPS and confining and repulsive and those memories but in a safe place so
that we know of data that is under review right showing not only did we she toaster we should
never forget and likely neither for reductions with treatments home longer exposure and are
small group but VR out a little bit of revenge where it came from local people don't trust the
depression which is a common thing you know no pps feared great phone lot of issues saying
lunch and that's really the issue so and caution so a big political props
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 9:35 PM

B_FEB_WASH_99

a surprising twist in the investigation of a woman found dead inside a maple Valley home this
past week deputies say a man found dead outside the shares precinct Friday morning is
connected to the dead woman come was telling the Tass reports police say he shot and killed
himself save moments before they thought the man's body meant a lot to say someone is
coming to a precinct to kill themselves we know that the car was registered 3 days ago debbie
had been looking for the woman's husband after they found her body what happens to the day
you know what what what happened to her hairdresser told me they called 9.1 after she
missed appointments two weeks ago and leader heard a voicemail message that alarmed them
to know I mean how long its hand is starting to question everything deputy say they want the
couple's home he yours ago for a domestic dispute but by most accounts and neighbors say the
couple was kind and helpful making the detectives' work more challenging as they work to find
out what really happened we have so many questions today and then we have different things
keep happening we still can't answer the first question is what makes it even harder for us to
try to explain to anyone
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 9:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_100

the investigation of a woman found dead in maple Valley home as detectives puzzle out the
latest twist in the case yesterday a man killed himself outside of the King County Sheriff's office
precinct maple Valley members inside an S.U.V. registered to the woman's husband she was
found on the couple's home Wednesday announced charges Wright Allen says investigators are
trying to figure out how this all came to be we have so many questions and then we have
different things happening the first makes it even harder for us that critics blame Abbas says
they went to the couple's home Ashley a few years ago for a domestic dispute most neighbors
say the couple was kind and helpful the medical examiner says they hope to determine how the
woman died by sometime next week

90

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 11:35 PM

B_FEB_WASH_101

White male in his 20s born black choose wife Pam and red and black jacket you can he wouldn't
come in the door were that he might have something covering they've got up and looked like a
camp for youth I clearly their cue from the glacier come armed with a see him call 9.1 may kill
himself writer from the sheriff's office precinct maple Valley earlier this morning the vehicle
driven by demand is registered to the husband of the woman found dead in her Maple Valley
home Wednesday most carly Johnson filed this report from the scene this is the King County
sheriff's precinct just off one 69 at the corner of choose 31st medical examiner has taken the
man's body of the S.U.V. he drove in with has been towed away Ryan habit with the sheriff's
office says the run to this morning they got a call from someone saying man was on his way to
the sheriff's office to take his own life still working to identify who that color was this did not
come from his government to have somebody else and it was I don't know all the details of it
but it was pretty day which is why we the S.U.V. is in the name of jason how will the husband
57 year-old julie how found dead in her home on Wednesday to Mr. hair appointments along
workers got worried because that never happened and voicemail on her phone was her
husband saying they both got sick with the flu it would be a while before she could call back get
the emmy will make the final identification and maple Valley.
KBNZ
Feb 24 • 6:51 AM

B_FEB_OREG_101

an Australian boy gained the support of people around the world, and an entire rugby team
after he was relentlessly bullied for his dwarfism. the 9-year-old walked out with the national
rugby league with the indy -- indigenous team before an exhibition match on Saturday. he
proudly marched on to the field holding a player's hand as thousands of fans cheered him on.
he wanted to kill himself after being bullied at school.
News Radio KEX
Feb 24 • 7:14 PM

B_FEB_OREG_102

this is one reason why I know why I so strong leafy all hitting kill himself phil I said my office a
few years ago and we spoke about God and we spoke about the country and that few people
have the opportunity to do what he did and he felt very alone but he wasn't the man knew who
he was knew what time it was and knew Oo who God was he was saying deeply spiritual man
and a man who understood history and understood his place and it no man who speaks like
Phillip haney said those often kills himself I'd like to ask the police that found his body and
deemed the suicide if he had a thumb drive around his neck I hadn't seen phil for probably a
year maybe two years I say Hi doing I hug in and I slapped him on the chest he knew what that
meant I was feeling the thumb drive as there were documents that he kept around his neck I
only know what a few of them were orders a thumb drive was found on the body Who are
turning into a America the Washington examiner has verified that he was getting married in
about a month doesn't sound like something suicidal diet plans he was in the middle and
91

excited about writing another book exposing more things I know what suicide is and I know
how old how you can feel alone and have normal depression and then something happens
chemically and did it it takes over your life and it causes you to do things that are insane and
maybe maybe phil point through that but I there's no indication that isis from any of his friends
or family that his come out at this point I find this so extraordinary and so disheartening
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 24 • 12:15 PM

B_FEB_WASH_102

mother of aid sought a person who was in fact disturbs talked about her efforts to make it
easier to get people to help they need my son met criteria for involuntary treatment for a
moment that he stepped up to the roof of the hotel and I'm still has to pledged to his death her
son's name was calvin the see how she said that he didn't meet the criteria to be include to be
put in the hold involuntarily Intel he killed himself now you combine that with the fact that we
make drugs available on the Street you combine that with the fact there's open air dealing
Fenton all and meth and heroin and Intime pictures of mass from the very bottom that is
helping kids who have mental health challenges sometimes need to be restrained sometimes
they need residential care can't do that Washington state from the fact that you were
instructing mental illness in kids in schools by introducing into sex acts they're not ready to see
by telling them they can choose to be whatever sex tape like on any given day you go from the
bottom on up to Western state hospital with jake In is destroying the institution has been being
destroyed for a long time losing 40 million box is going to continue to talk about but people told
her they need help and told them I know parents dentist they begged for help for their adult
children not just their adolescent chilled I had crisis responders saved me he's clearly not well
and no I don't think he's safe but she doesn't meet the criteria under a lot Yeah her son killed
himself.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 23 • 7:16 AM

B_FEB_WASH_103

the investigation of a woman found dead in maple Valley has detectives puzzle over the latest
twist in that case was it a Friday a man killed himself outside the King County Sheriff's office
precinct in maple Valley the man wasn't the issue the was registered to the woman's husband
she was solid the couple's home on Wednesday announced a large buyout but as investigators
try to figure out what exactly happened we have so many questions and then we have different
things that could happen it makes it harder for us and it's playing out it says they actually went
to the couple's home a few years ago for a domestic dispute but most neighbors said the
couple was kind and helpful.

92

KXLY (ABC)
Feb 24 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_104

a suspicious death last week in hillyard... a shooting last night in spokane valley... and a car
chase that ended in an arrest. four news now reporter nikki torres shows us how all three are
related. it's a complicated investigation that's continuing to unfold and reveal more about what
happened in each of the cases. it started with a dead body found inside of a freezer. two people
allegedly involved in this triangle of crimes made their first appearance in court this afternoon.
one stayed compliant, the other -- not so much. three crimes.... a murder, a shooting, and a
high-speed chase.new information tell us there's a connection between all three.-----here's
what else court documents say...it started with the murder in hillyard on thursday... a man -juan campos -- was found dead inside a freezer at a home.36-year-old melissa martin was
arrested the next day for second-degree murder charges.martin told investigators campos
raped her -- although she did not report it to police.she told them she shot campos in the head,
then burned blood-soaked items in the house in the backyard fire pit, then hid his body.we now
know - she had help.-----she told police 34-year-old brian riley - a 14-time felon – put campos'
body in the freezer. sunday night, police say riley was trying to sell stolen credit cards to 33year-old eric klein in a spokane valley home.riley shot klein near his shoulder and took off. ----this eventually led deputies on a high-speed chase, crossing over city lines. riley hit a dead end
near pacific and myrtle. 4 news now spoke with a woman who watched riley get arrested right
behind her house. 06:54:47:00 (sot/nicole wagner/resident) ("all of a sudden, they came back
around and then they had the guy, they're trying to handcuff him, and he was fighting them
and wouldn't let them put her to the ground.") 15-----riley and martin appeared in court for the
first time today.martin sat quietly, nodding along.riley, however, was more vocal.
00:14:55:00(sot/brian riley/defendant)("fired. i don't want her as my attorney. "i will not be
your attorney in the first appearance. "i don't even want her here.") 07 he gave the judge his
account of when he came in contact with detectives.00:17:55:00 (sot/brian riley/defendant)("i
plead the fifth and and decided to remain silent. They had the jail staff assault me, strap me
into a chair and keep me in it for four hours. forced me to obtain dna from me against my will
and my rights.") 13riley said to the judge, he was put on suicide watch - but says he is not
suicidal. riley and martin are pleading not guilty. riley faces charges including first-degree
attempted murder, attempting to elude law enforcement, unlawful possession of a firearm.
martin faces charges including second-degree domestic violence, riley and martin are both
being held on a half-million dollar bond. eric klein - the man riley shot last night is in critical
condition. this is a developing story, stay with 4 news now. we'll provide you updates as soon as
we learn more.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 24 • 12:40 PM

B_FEB_OREG_103

United States domestic violence Incidents involving guns rights and women are especially
vulnerable according to the different law Center nearly a million women alive today report
being shot or shot hacked by needs a partner in for a half million women say that an intimate
partner has threatened them with a gun and while the terms of domestic violence or intimate
93

partner violence can encompass all kinds of abuse the fact remains that women are at the
highest risk of being harmed or killed by a fire by male spouse or partner according to
Everytown for gun safety support for all this week on the takeaway we explored the link
between domestic violence and firearms we hear from a survivor his husband nearly ended her
life when he shot her 4 times and what she wants people to know about her experience will
also learn about the legal landscape of self defense when abused women turn guns on their
partners fearing for their lives and will look at States taking created new approaches to taking
firearms away from those who might use them to kill a partner but first to understand we know
about this problem I spoke to julie weber implementation director of the differs law Center to
prevent gun violence I asked her why we've seen this spike in the number of women being
murdered by a partner who has a firearm we are studying the connection between firearms
and domestic violence hopefully more effectively documenting it and developing a better
understanding of the connection so that's significant we also know that there's been an
increasing gun ownership in the United States and just last year we have a study that indicates
that higher rates of gun ownership are Associated with higher rates of homicide in domestic
violence situations so there's possibly connection there you know it's a difficult area to study
but it is absolutely a concern and hopefully we're doing a better job documenting the problem
it sounds like this involves on one hand is simply more guns in the population but also more
people reporting this kind of violence more people reporting and just better dot job
documenting any part of the issue is when somebody is shot or killed how is that documented
how we collect that data had reported out and so forth so you know there's still some
questions for example around suicide and firearms and how often we can really understand
that someone is taking her own life as opposed to perhaps in dealing with domestic violence
situation or ghetto in response to ongoing emotional abuse for example also might get listed as
a suicide but if you get some further inquiry we could discover that he was connected to
domestic violence for example so what is the data tell us about how often women are killed by
intimate partners using guns and but the statistics indicate it every year 600 American women
are shot to death by intimate partners so that's significant and in fact we know that of all
women shot to death by others in the U.S. how were shot by their intimate partners we also
know that the death toll extensive mass shootings it in about 54% of mass shootings which are
defined as a situation where for more people were killed the shooter killed in intimate partner
so when we learned about other types of gun violence we have to also be considering what the
relationship might have been between the shooter and at least one or more of the people killed
a lot of people don't know that most mass shootings happened entirely within home under that
definition so I have family violence intimate partner violence firearm violence mass shootings
all very tightly connected are States that have lax gun laws or prone to higher rates of gunrelated domestic violence there does seem to be an indication that have Eyeing tighter gun
laws are correlated winds reduced homicide rates Associated with domestic violence so we
know that background checks for example are very good at stopping abusers from getting guns
are statistics indicate that won 9 background check and aisles are connected to domestic abuse
in over 300000 domestic abusers have been blocked from buying guns by the federal
background check system since its inception we know that in States that do a better job
prohibiting domestic abusers from having access to firearms there's a decrease in injury and
Emily ality one of the interesting statistics to me is that nearly one million women alive today
94

report being shot or shot at by an intimate partner so part of the issue it's not just lethal
outcome we're concerned about we also know there are people who are living today with
injury these threats Associated with intimate partner violence and firearms so the more we can
do to address that connection between firearms domestic violence I think the better off
families will be policy plays a pretty significant role in curbing domestic violence homicide but
are you red flag laws showing any positive results so red-flag lies there are often called ory
extreme risk protection orders purpos for sure in california they're called gun violence
restraining orders the newest civil restraining order approach to trying to reduce the harm
Associated with firearms when someone is going through a crisis or maybe a danger to
themselves or others and there is some research suggesting that purpos do a lot to reduce the
risk Associated with firearms violence when someone is going through a situation like that to
temporarily remove guns for safekeeping to protect that individual and to protect others julie
where do things stand right now I think the increased awareness of the connection between
firearms and domestic violence is critical so that we can inform victims and survivors of the risk
they maybe very intimately familiar with what they're experiencing relationship but knowing
that the presence of firearms increases the risk for themselves for their children pours the
community at large that's an important piece of information for them it's an important piece of
information for those of us in the public health world and in the legal community to do the right
screening ask the right questions provide appropriate referrals and support so that we can
more pro actively intervene and prevent lethal outcomes or injury for family members and for
all of us julie weber Izzy implementation director I think.
88.5 KNKX
Feb 22 • 12:55 PM

B_FEB_WASH_105

we're talking about that so women can dreading this know until the break I can keep going okay
you I like to say brave enough to take that subject on the I don't I don't I don't think I don't
think I can I don't think you can do that that's fine that's fine Chile had his own out to suicidal
thoughts he brought his career in the Navy too and he told me that the microphones were off
he said it was okay to talk about here asked him if in retrospect the thing that got him about
that he's seen reason he felt compelled to write Yes was it could have been his own funeral
they said now and then explain why he wrote Yes he said he knew from his time doing medevac
flights that in your sound of the helicopter approaching can improve the vital signs of person on
the verge of death he said Arab you because I wanted to be the sound of helicopters someone
and chills your chip phone of the National suicide Prevention hotline that number is 802.3
KREM (CBS)
Feb 24 • 6:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_106

detectives have made two arrests in connection with two different shootings but they believe
one of the suspect is connected to both crimes. the first happened last week in here. the
second ended in spokane valley last night after a high speed chase grim news amanda rollie is
live at the spokane county courthouse tonight with y detectives believe the cases could be
connected. amanda mark and whitney and melissa martin and brian riley both made their first
95

appearances in district court this afternoon. now martin is facing a second degree murder
charge relating to the hilliard shooting last week j7and riley is facing a set a first degree murder
charge or rather first degree attempted murder charge for a separate incident that ended in a
police chase sunday night. and we do not know their exact relationship to each other but court
documents detail why police believe that riley was involved in both crimes early thursday
morning spokane police responded to this home on easter rockwell where they later found a
body hidden in a freezer? spokane county court documents show 37 year old melissa martin
told police she woke up to her roommate's boyfriend her then shot him in the back of the head.
neighbors heard the gunshots say they did not realize that was the sound they heard. i heard
one of them on when i was i was like half asleep when i heard it? it's kind of creepy living next
door to a murder house. i know am the first couple of days we are doing fine but i feel like the
longer i sit here and look at the house the kind of creep you're gay all the board's starting
document say. martin admitted to putting the victim's body in the freezer using bleach to clean
the scene and setting fire to other items soiled in blood. police collected bedding and a pillow
burning in the backyard firepit as evidence docs say. martin also told detectives her friend rudy
who was later identified as brian riley helped move the body into the freezer and clean up the
house. martin was arrested thursday for second degree murder but a different crime led police
to riley in spokane valley sunday night. court documents filed today say on sunday riley shot
someone he knew in the shoulder at the victim's spokane valley home he left with the victim's
roommate who later told a gas station clerk what happened and to call police dogs say police
found riley at the gas station and he led them on a high speed chase it ended in an alleyway on
east pacific just a few houses away from where. court records say riley's father lives according
to court records. investigators say they are aware riley is a suspect in the hilliard shooting with
melissa martin but he denied being involved in court today. the judge said both martin and
riley's bonds at five hundred thousand dollars we also learned from court documents today that
riley has a pretty lengthy criminal history. take a look at this list here according to court records
he has 14 previous felony convictions including secondary robbery criminal mischief with a
deadly weapon and possessing controlled substances. and he also has 10 gross misdemeanors
including two fourth degree assaults. in court today riley made a few outbursts and comments
to the judge. take a listen. we'd like put it on record that when i came into contact with
detectives and i let it be decided in silence that they had the jail staff salt me and strap me into
a chair keep me in it for hours and forced me to obtain dna for me and against my will and
rights and get me on a suicide watch you know i'm not suicidal to try to contact me to talk to
detective paul now prior to that comment. riley got upset with the public defender who was
sitting next to him and said she was fired told the judge she fired her and did not want her
there reporting from the spokane county courthouse.
News Radio KEX
Feb 24 • 7:19 PM

B_FEB_OREG_104

I'd like to ask the police that found his body and deemed the suicide if he had a thumb drive
around his neck I hadn't seen phil for probably a year maybe two years I say Hi doing I hug in
and I slapped him on the chest he knew what that meant I was feeling the thumb drive as there
were documents that he kept around his neck I only know what a few of them were orders a
96

thumb drive was found on the body Who are turning into a America the Washington examiner
has verified that he was getting married in about a month doesn't sound like something suicidal
diet plans he was in the middle and excited about writing another book exposing more things I
know what suicide is and I know how old how you can feel alone and have normal depression
and then something happens chemically and did it it takes over your life and it causes you to do
things that are insane and maybe maybe phil point through that but I there's no indication that
isis from any of his friends or family that his come out at this point I find this so extraordinary
and so disheartening I believe phil was working on something that somebody who is working
for us right now doing some investigation is working on as well this individual reached out to
me 3 weeks ago and said I'm in trouble I'm getting real death threats the kind of death threats
that come quietly that nobody picks up on and nobody is nobody in the Press even cares that's
another friend of mine who I know is not suicidal.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 11:53 AM

B_FEB_WASH_107

he told charlie huge relief to hear there been so many people the service it hit me I hit meal
almost like a touch like time he said I'm glad people showed up was were know who's going to
be there I then hand and you get that kind of like sinking feeling that you've missed something
important and exceed told me was because because those how he killed himself and and that
disappeared from home 3 and a half we curly hair even missing for about a week before his
body was found under a bridge and backpacks filled with pictures of his family and his service
record in his essay truly rates about that moment after the funeral when using this part talking
Mark any highly understand how he had died it all came together my mind suddenly no
mention of cause of death no news stories of training accidents no mention of the end of his
life the eulogy the months that hides in the dark the one you don't mention Let's summon his
attention how did that change things threal to understand that Hadi had committed suicide I
got lightheaded RSA had a physical I had a physical reaction to fly just because there was
nothing there's nothing about it they've been no no no work it chaplains and location a time
when nobody said anything about it both March and he would know as I found out this morning
I talked where they were terrified because they expect to show up and have to chop they
expected no one to come sauce in fact the Navy chaplain had mentioned at the start of the
service that he had killed themselves patrolling arrived late and missed it and truly had
misunderstood are worries that no one would show up we're told me he was worried about
that and not because he killed themselves that's more like it all happened so suddenly I wasn't
sure people would be able to come the morning before interview charlie called it is Widow to
make sure I was okay with that he talked to me and during that conversation he learned
something about that Let's break down in the chapel the reason why she wanted to leave this
because she was ashamed she felt that she felt ashamed that everybody in new York father
killed himself and that he felt she was a bad person I was I was horrified the EU and Turkey of
awfully Yeah so I think the third I think she was some houses pariah for father passing
everybody in that board room service who's there to support her and she was nona is just
horrific I was horrified to hear that and that's what I believe and left the military in 2012 the
seniors charlie choices we go back to civilian life he get a job you got your family and friends
97

Venus having a greater mission your your sense of purpose is one hits you have those walls but
what I heard it and he didn' t I eat I understood what he I understood what he was thinking in
that moment I had some credit I try to explain him basically in terms I know you know myself
but I am here I mean I I if I can put myself in their shoes with we about what being able to put
yourself in their shoes and Linkedin kick can you talk about that you up for it but we're talking
about that said in Quetta trending Innocent I take a little break I can keep going Hey you like
sam brave enough to take that subject on the I don't own I don't I don't think I don't think and I
don't think you can do that that's fine that's fine Kelly had his own about a suicidal thoughts he
brought his career in the Navy too and he told me that when the microphones were off he said
it was okay to talk about here asked them if in retrospect the thing that got him about eddie
funeral reason he felt compelled to write an essay was it could have been his own funeral they
said no that's not it and explain why he wrote Yes he said he knew from his time doing medevac
flights that the mere sound of the helicopter approaching can improve the vital signs for person
on the verge of death he said arere you because I wanted to be the sound of helicopters some I
can just check share the fun of the National suicide Prevention hotline that number is 802.3
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 10:30 AM

B_FEB_WASH_108

Seattle police say they are investigating and no arrests have been made a surprising twist in the
investigation of a woman found dead inside her Maple Valley home this past week debbie say a
man found dead outside shares precinct Friday morning is connected to the dead woman come
most damning toss reports police say he had shot shot and killed himself stepping save
moments before they thought the man's body meant to say someone was coming to a precinct
to kill themselves we know that the car was registered to jason carroll get these have been
looking for the woman's husband after they found her body what happens to the day you know
what what what happens sewer her hairdresser told me they called 9.1 after she missed two
appointments two weeks ago and leader heard a voice mail message that alarmed them I'm
sorry no I mean how long am I mean there's two questions about everything deputy say they
want the couple's home a few years ago for a domestic dispute but by most accounts neighbors
say the couple was kind and helpful making the detectives' work more challenging as they work
to find out what really happened we have so many questions and then we have different things
keep happening we still can't answer the first question is what makes it even harder for us to
explain to anyone toss-up
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 22 • 9:06 AM

B_FEB_WASH_109

the king county detectives say that the husband of the woman found dead in a maple valley
home killed himself. they found the body of jason howell next to the suv in the parking lot at
the precinct in maple valley. they received a 911 call saying someone was coming to one
precinct to die by suicide. neighbors say they cannot make sense of this. >> it is unexpected and
always sad when someone unexpectedly passes. we are just rallying together right now. we
hope to honor her and them. >> reporter: detectives had been trying to contact jason howell to
98

talk about the death of julie howell and they are waiting on the medical examiner to reveal how
his wife died.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 23 • 8:43 AM

B_FEB_OREG_105

now to the nine-year-old bullying victim in australia who has a literally team showing support
for him. tons of love have been pouring in for him after his mom posted a video of him on
facebook showing him crying about getting bullied for his dwarfism. hess mom says he's even
tried to create suicide but yesterday the rugby team took him out on to the field. [cheers and
applause] that is pretty amazing. he's also receiving support from celebrities like actor hugh
jackman and kickstarter campaign to send him to disney lund has raised hundreds of thousands
of dollars.
Fox 12 Plus
Feb 22 • 6:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_106

meanwhile, it's been confirmed that former "love island" host, caroline flack, died by suicide at
the age of 40. flack was found dead at her apartment, also on february 15th. and according to
the coroner's court, both police and paramedics tried to revive her in december of 2019. she
also previously dated harry styles back in 2011.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 23 • 10:55 AM

B_FEB_WASH_110

a video of the little boy bullied for years now going viral support for him it is the video that is
breaking the hearts of parents a little boy sobbing his mom had with then after the relentless
bullying other son Hey being very emional PP heads very fit your plea deal is the little boys from
Australia 9 years old and lives with dwarfism and that makes him a target for Bally so constant
that for the last couple of years he's trying to take his own life his mother your rock bail it's
every parent's was not man is a man baby use and for me that's my reality every day that's
what I have prepared for the blasts because I am everything is going through with his medical
condition a new reality now most support from around the world including actor and fellow
Ozzie huge jackman quite useful only Nina men and women of different names Michelle fresh
as an ABC news if you or someone you know we need help support called the National suicide
hotline
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Feb 22 • 11:58 AM

B_FEB_WASH_111

ashamed she felt that she felt ashamed that everybody in new York father killed himself and
that he felt she was a bad person I was I was horrified the EU and Turkey of awfully Yeah so I
think the third I think she was some houses pariah for father passing everybody in that board
room service who's there to support her and she was nona is just horrific I was horrified to hear
99

that and that's what I believe and left the military in 2012 the seniors charlie choices we go
back to civilian life he get a job you got your family and friends Venus having a greater mission
your sense of purpose is one hits you have those walls but what I heard it and he didn' t I eat I
understood what he I understood what he was thinking in that moment I had some credit I try
to explain him basically in terms I know you know myself but I am here I mean I I if I can put
myself in their shoes with we about what being able to put yourself in their shoes and Linkedin
kick can you talk about that you up for it but we're talking about that said in Quetta trending
Innocent I take a little break I can keep going Hey you like sam brave enough to take that
subject on the I don't own I don't I don't think I don't think and I don't think you can do that
that's fine that's fine Kelly had his own about a suicidal thoughts he brought his career in the
Navy too and he told me that when the microphones were off he said it was okay to talk about
here asked them if in retrospect the thing that got him about eddie funeral reason he felt
compelled to write an essay was it could have been his own funeral they said no that's not it
and explain why he wrote Yes he said he knew from his time doing medevac flights that the
mere sound of the helicopter approaching can improve the vital signs for person on the verge
of death he said arere you because I wanted to be the sound of helicopters some I can just
check share the fun of the National suicide Prevention hotline that number is 802.3 talk
KGW-POR (NBC)
Feb 22 • 9:35 AM

B_FEB_OREG_107

when should a loved one be able to force a relative to get mental health treatment. that
question is getting talked about up in olympia. a clark county mother says her son's story
proves the current law makes it hard to get help in time. drew mickelson shows us how she is
trying to get it changed. >> reporter: calvin clark was a surfer, a college student and a state
champion public speaker. he also had a serious mental illness and his mother says she was not
able it get him any hope. >> my son met criteria for involuntary treatment the moment he
stepped off the roof of a hotel and plunged to his death. >> reporter: calvin was 3 when he died
by suicide last year. his mother said calvin suffered from mental illen from the age of 18 but he
didn't know it. he was asking out the , tried killing himself. she couldn't force him into
commitment. >> i had responders say to me he is clearly not well and no, i don't think he is safe
but he doesn't meet the criteria under the law. >> reporter: , now he's gone. >> now,' gone. >>
reporter: relatives can only have loved ones involuntarily committed when they can prove there
is a problem with routine functioning. the law would only require prove of a lack of safe
behavior, a lower threshold and commitment was go from a minimum of three days it five days
giving more time for evalue united nations. >> they wanted me to take meds. i didn't want to. i
was put in point restraints and drugged. >> others say the law should stay the same or it could
be taken advantage of as a form of emotional abuse and they say current facilities don't have
room for additional patients and they fear sending someone away easily and for longer periods
of time could lead to issues. >> college student have dropped out of school, people have lost
houses. >> i was told it is not illegal to be psychotic. until he is dangerous, there is nothing we
can do. >> reporter: jenny clark was told her son would have on to hurt someone to get help.
she hopes legislator act before someone else gets hurt. >> i think they and the individuals that
are very seriously ill are falling through the cracks. >> the bill's sponsor points out that while a
100

family member can request this involuntary commitment t can only be allowed after an
independent investigation preventing some of the fears about abuses of the system.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 21 • 11:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_112

tragic discovery outside can-can shares precinct Friday to carry 7 TD run jason Hall deputy
found an S.U.V. a man who died by suicide this incident appears to be linked to the death the
57 year-old julia how a maple Valley woman found dead in her home v s TV does come back to
jason how all the medical examiner will make the final identification on the body found in this
section of the Park lot Julia als case remains open and now investigators are going to try to
figure out exactly what happened to her and her husband
KOBI
Feb 24 • 6:05 PM

B_FEB_OREG_108

a man is safe tonight... after attempting to jump from a two- story parking garage at asante
rogue regional medical center. the incident happened at 9:15 this morning. hospital security
was notified by a nurse who witnessed the man crouched on the ledge of the parking garage.
the man who saved his life says he knew he needed to move quickly. ''i felt like i needed to do
something fast.. i didn't have time to wait for law enforcement or first responders, i needed to
act now so at that time i motioned to the other two security officers to assist him.' pinon says
he's never seen anything like this before. he says he is grateful for his team and their fast
response. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help
available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. you can also
text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KOBI
Feb 25 • 7:35 AM

B_FEB_OREG_109

a security officer at asante rogue regional medical center is being hailed as a hero for saving a
man's life. a nurse told hospital security .. that she saw a man crouched on the ledge of the
hospital's parking garage... attempting to make the 2 story jump yesterday morning. the
security officer who saved the man's life... says he knew he needed to move quickly. ''i felt like i
needed to do something fast.. i didn't have time to wait for law enforcement or first
responders, i needed to act now so at that time i motioned to the other two security officers to
assist him.' pinon says he's never seen anything like this before.... he says he is grateful for his
team and their fast response. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800273-8255. also text 741-741.

101

KMVU (FOX)
Feb 25 • 7:35 AM

B_FEB_OREG_110

a security officer at asante rogue regional medical center is being hailed as a hero for saving a
man's life. a nurse told hospital security .. that she saw a man crouched on the ledge of the
hospital's parking garage... attempting to make the 2 story jump yesterday morning. the
security officer who saved the man's life... says he knew he needed to move quickly. 'i felt like i
needed to do something fast.. i didn't have time to wait for law enforcement or first
responders, i needed to act now so at that time i motioned to the other two security officers to
assist him.' pinon says he's never seen anything like this before.... he says he is grateful for his
team and their fast response. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 25 • 6:15 AM

B_FEB_WASH_113

the civil trial over two murders of two young boys charlie and braden powell resumes this
morning with testimony expected from the sister of the boys' father. >> the children's maternal
grandparents alleging in a wrongful death lawsuit that the state failed in its duty to protect the
boys while under dshs care. they were killed by their father, josh powell, who also killed himself
by setting his home on fire during a state- supervised visit with his children. powell was under
suspicion in the 2009 disappearance of his wife, susan cox powell, who remains missing and is
presumed dead.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 25 • 5:30 PM

B_FEB_WASH_114

the sister of the man who murdered his two sons then set their home on fire and killed himself
took the stand today in the civil trial against the state the case started in 2009 when Susan
Powell disappeared in 2012 her husband Josh Powell brutally killed their two children along
with himself impure while his impulse parents then filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the
state claiming DSHS was contributing factor a contributing factor in the children's death today
the voice sample poll sister Jennifer graves testified afraid they were afraid of him.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 25 • 6:18 AM

B_FEB_OREG_111

today america's biggest mental health treatment centers art jails Los Angeles has what is
believed to be the largest County jail system now hold more than 5000 inmates dealing with
mental illness some 3000 held downtown in what's called the Twin Towers correctional facility
the first to report centers at westerville takes us inside the twin towers just a warning here this
story contains some graphic scenes along one of the twin towers cellblocks and in make
gestures frantically a small window he's piled garbage in a corner of his cell like some grim
102

abstract sculptures adorn warns guards he's a runner elsewhere guards posted cell door signs
that an inmate is hostile or suicidal and their warnings of gasser its meaning one who's thrown
blood faeces or Europe there's a smell of urine and dank water and in several areas water
seeping out of cells what's the water on the floor in the blanket and sopping up to eat Paulk
these toys did it continued to flush it which resulted in overflowing sheriff's captain khan
Plunkett was with the twin towers access to care appear Fortunately with the design build
trains want incorporated so it will collect water sometimes an extensive amount of water on
the floor to toilet flooding is a daily occurrence Yes also a daily occurrence new inmates with
mental illness entering the twin towers in the last decade the number of inmates housed here
has skyrocketed captured pocket when I started in 2013 mentally ill inmates were only housed
on the 7th floor and the 6th floor right below it currently to date the entire facility is consist of
mentally ill inmates its overcrowded its understaffed the twin towers needs 200 treatment
beds for the most acute cases it has only 40 it wasn't built for treatment it doesn't have enough
counselors 10 psychiatrist jobs have gone unfilled for nearly two years social worker Lewis
paying years the jail's mental health clinical program manager we used to have a psychiatrist
see them every two weeks but because of the lack of a patrician the jail would have to see
them everybody if lucky the inmates on this floor we'll see a social worker once-a-week by
default there's more of an emphasis on medication critics say over medication and less on
individual or group there Pay there's really no room for that or opinion notes almost no privacy
on some floors bunk beds Packwood should be common use areas we have to scramble have to
do whatever we need to do with their individual is suffering from schizophrenia Lycos ices
provoked by Ray drugs or whatever but this is a population so we can't get this the population
what we need to target and provide the best so we can the best we can and includes a ready
supply of suicide restraints their heavy belt this garments back into the thick blankets movers
views they're stacked like office supplies on a shelf in a secure area outside the cells this is now
one of the several high observation floor Reserve for more severe cases half a dozen disheveled
young man standing still staring into space and munching on sandwiches many half naked
except for the suicide gowns wrapped around them like some mid evil garment there chained
to the medal tables bolted to the floor asher deputy mayor and tremble what's going purposes
lunchtime and direction program right now considered and recreation time this is reptile Yes Sir
there chuckle to the table gets just make sure that they're not walking world they're not taking
the medication they can be gamed predict what time I think everyone can agree video ads it's
rather in you named in to have the in me handcuffed while out again captain Tony Plunkett
would be accessed care.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 25 • 9:34 PM

B_FEB_WASH_115

it was an emotional day during the trial over the brutal killings of a missing mom's two children
in pierce county. the case started in 2009 when susan powell disappeared. in 2012 her husband
josh powell killed their two young sons and committed suicide in puyallup. powell's parents
filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the state claiming that dshs was a contributing factor in
the children's death. today josh paul's sister, jennifer graves, took the stand. >> absolutely
loved helping with their care. i was -- we were all devastated, devastated when they were
103

killed. >> the trial is expected to last several weeks. the state argues that according to law, they
followed correct protocol to protect the boys.
KOBI
Feb 25 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_112

multiple agencies across the valley... including a nationally recognized guest ... came together
to discuss our suicide awareness campaign ... 'in this together'. dwight holden... executive
director of lines for life... the leading suicide and substance abuse prevention nonprofit in the
northwest... attended the meeting. he spoke about the importance of our campaign and talking
about suicide. the meeting also covered how nbc5 can continue to instill hope in people who
have thoughts of suicide... while connecting them to resources over the next year and a half.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 24 • 11:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_116

tomorrow josh, powell sister is expected to speak she was the one who raised concerns about
her brothers. troubling actions before the murder suicide. and tonight, the family of this
missing teenage girl is asking for your help to find her they're really worried about her safety.
16-year-old asia will bond was last seen on February 12th in the west hill area of cat. our phone
was last used in federal way the day afterwards her family says there was a possible sighting of
her that's been unconfirmed at the federal way transit center on the 15th. but nothing at all
and almost 2 weeks. she probably wearing a black jacket with jeans or dark pants you or your
hair up in a bun she's got temples if you see here please call 911 or can police.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 26 • 5:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_117

it has been a very long day in milwaukee and employee at the Molson Coors Brewing company
campus was fired and returned later in the day with a weapon and started shooting I know
some of the victims really feel for the families of panic and pay for it I saw like really new 5
people were killed all employees police say the suspected gunman then killed himself
Milwaukee mayor Tom Barrett it is a horrible day for the employees here is a very rough day for
anybody who is close to this situation.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 26 • 1:47 PM

B_FEB_WASH_118

if you're about to pick up the kids from school so should we go with tomorrow in a day's work
school or going to read it a book called I am Jazz about a young man who presents is a woman
who's been through thickets now the 4th surgery to correct complications I acknowledge
something Super easily their members in the audience adults gone through this process and it
work for you and I'm very happy for you and I know some other things there are parents in the
audience who are struggling with gender dysphoria their children and I've met folks going
104

through this it's very scary and you love the kid and should have a portion of the genus first to
the painful so I can't for the life of me understand why we're letting people sell tickets I can't I
know the groups behind the 6 key families that are pushing this global you've seen just erupt
right this is top some is some billionaires who have investments and pharmaceutical companies
surprise medical device companies surprise there also leftists two of them in these billionaire
family to of the family members consider themselves trains human so quick partly different
species its top down it's being pushed top down this is why it is so disturbing to me is because
gender dysphoria such a confusing state to believe you were in the wrong body right and so
why push on kids Y presented as an option if you think that's happening just taken a couple
things first of all Um there has been a 5800% increase in girls in the UK 5000% with gender
dysphoria in a gender clinic so-called there used to be maybe 7 kids per year going that's now
hundreds of kids per day going to these clinics the lead to what transgender clinic there's one
thing it's called affirmation only you say your boy your voice doesn't matter what your body
says from that its social transition from that its hormones after that surgery about the way this
is being done the kids to think and the kids of the walkers as young as 7 think about this but
there is there is all sorts of reasons that this is being pushed one of the things they say is well
this is the way to avoid suicide that's blatantly untrue the suicide rate for kids with gender
dysphoria is no greater van the suicide rate for kids with generalised body dysphoria etc into
two studies the merchandise to say otherwise are jokes one of them is called the rare study this
is a they established a global suicide rate of kids who identify as transgender based upon the
words of 17 children 17 were self-reported their symptoms and self-reported suicide attempts
were ss settling 10th think about this as well what is the difference with modern gender
dysphoria this hitting kids in puberty in and classic generous for because you got acknowledged
this is a fact there are people from the youngest at age of a family member like this youngest
age were just convinced I and our R remember happens to be a grown woman Essid as a girl she
said and I should have but parts that's classic gender dysphoria Very hard to deal with and it is
dealt with has been dealt successfully through Yes therapy not conversion therapy talking
about things with people why you feel really strong some pictures of what we discover often
times it works in fact 80 to 95% of kids who get the paying full condition of gender dysphoria 94
80 to 95% overcome its which is preferably is nuts to having two times the amount of
testosterone or estrogen shoved in your body and whatever either right but now it's different
this new form of gender dysphoria is hitting kids in puberty and Here's the dynamic that I read
about classic gender dysphoria it's Super painful you believe you're in the wrong body I hate
that eases the pain the new gender dysphoria is a way for kids to explain their pain kids that are
depressed their kids have existing body image issues are so often so often kids who suffered
sexual trauma I can say oh here's a reason I feel this way it's a great relief because we can tell
this easy path all just go get surgery and hormones accepted that often doesn't of dates the
gender dysphoria look there are people indoors audience suffering now families of your kids
your kids beautiful you love the kids of depression you love them with generous body is more
Yeah love with and Rex of course you're going to all of them and if there are adults they decide
to go that path hormones surge you can own it they're adults Here's the thing David leave us
there is some reason a difference when you go from

105

AM 860
Feb 26 • 5:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_113

I was at spring training with my family my partner John dick's texted me and said Phillips dead
apparently it he was found on the side of the road highway 16 one 24 near a very small town
and when I say the modern of the coal that only outside he was actually on the side of the road
outside his vehicle his vehicle was there this is an Amador County seconded in the center of the
northern part of california really small town he had one gunshot wound and the gun was on
that do was there they had did they have the gun there as well but it was on the side of the
road with the body and won't original lead the police there the County sheriff's office called this
a suicide and they kind of put it to bed but then they said no but they were actually continuing
investigation because of the location of the bullet was actualy in the midsection and Phillip
haney was sort of an expert in less that's not exactly if you know anything about guns that's not
exactly where you cheers of I'm with you I it I love a good conspiracy to talk about it but I am
not a conspiracy theorist whatsoever but when you start digging around into this story in there
are some questions that need to be answered.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Feb 25 • 11:15 AM

B_FEB_OREG_114

deb: the sister of josh powell erupted in tears today as she testified in a case against
washington's department of social and health services. susan disappeared in 2009. investigators
believe he was involved in her disappearance, but they never had enough evidence to arrest
him. powell killed himself and his two kids in 2012. susan's parents filed a wrongful death
lawsuit claiming they did not do enough to protect the children. today powell's sister, jennifer,
took the stand. >> i absolutely loved helping with their care and we were all devastated. we
were devastated when they were killed. >> deb: the state argues they followed protocol to
protect the boys.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 26 • 6:30 PM

B_FEB_OREG_115

we're following this tragic shooting at the molson coors brewery complex in milwaukee,
wisconsin. police say the shooter killed five people -- then killed himself. police confirmed the
shooter was a 51-year-old employee at the complex -- where 600 other people work. law
enforcement officials say this was an act of workplace violence. the shooter was reportedly
fired earlier today and returned later with a gun. police say the calls came in a bit before 2:15
this afternoon. they urge people to avoid the area, while employees of miller coors went on
lock down. the fbi is there on scene to asssist in this investigation.

106

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 25 • 10:40 PM

B_FEB_WASH_119

the sister of the man who murdered his two sons and set their home on fire and killed himself
took the stand Tuesday in a civil trial against the state the case started in 2009 with Susan
Powell disappeared in 2012 her husband Josh Powell brutally killed their two children along
with himself would appeal while Susan Powell's parents and filed a wrongful death lawsuit
against the state claiming that DSHS was a contributing factor in the children's deaths David
Boies said Powell's sister Jennifer graves testified afraid they were afraid it was only two
appearances and disappearance is this real they are all just so sweet active energetic riddel
points crowds expected to last several weeks the state argues that according to law they follow
protocols to protect the boys.
AM 860
Feb 26 • 8:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_116

6 people including the gunman are dead after a shooting at the Molson Coors brewing complex
Milwaukee course on Clay devil's says it's the 11th mass shooting in Wisconsin since 2004 more
police are investigating a motive in the shooting after a 51 year-old gunman opened fire on the
campus that houses close to 1000 employees the victims all worked at Molson Coors and all
members of the general public or involved Milwaukee police chief Alfons around says after the
killings the gunman shot and killed himself the chief called it a terrible day for Milwaukee.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Feb 26 • 4:58 PM

B_FEB_OREG_117

first tonight that breaking news a mass shooting in wisconsin the milwaukee journal sentinel is
reporting 7 people are dead, including the gunman who killed himself. it happened earlier this
afternoon on that huge campus of the beer company their most and of course. tonight police
say there is no more threat, but they are still sweeping the area to ensure that it is safe.
investigators are working to determine what led up to the shooting, but this just released we
now know the attacker is a 51-year-old Milwaukee man and a company employee. again 7
people are dead. at the course facility there in Milwaukee, Wisconsin over the last 20 years
there have be 11 mass murders in Wisconsin be sure to stay with 0.6 news and 0 dot com for
any breaking news updates.
KOBI
Feb 26 • 6:46 PM

B_FEB_OREG_118

craig: welcome back to our five on 5, again were here with dwight holton the executive director
of lines for life.you and i were talking about it during the break, youre the former us attorney
for oregon, you work in portland, you live portland and have familiarity well across the state,
what does it say to you about the in this together campaign and what youve seen in the rogue
valley in particular? dwight: well so ive always enjoyed working in the rogue valley i did a lot of
107

it when i was district attorney, precisely because this is a community that gets together to
figure out what they can do to meet their challenges.so whether it was initiatives like the
southern oregon meth project that kobi hosted years ago or in this together you look around
the room and what youve got is health care and law enforcement and addiction treatment folks
and non-profits and everybody you can think of working together to figure out how you tackle a
tough challenge.its really special and i think thats something ive always enjoyed about the
rogue valley is that willingness to come together and make stuff happen. craig: can you tell our
viewers about breaking the silence, what is that and how did it get started? dwight: breaking
the silence is an initiative that was also born right in this very studio.its an effort to help
reporters and news organizations do a better job of reporting on suicide.it used to be that we
really only talked about suicide on the news and in the newspaper when we had a celebrity
death, robin williams or kate spade or anthony bourdain, but there are remarkable stories of
hope and healing to tell around suicide prevention.you know for every person who dies by
suicide there are 280 folks who think about it seriously and dont.those are comeback kid
stories; those are the kind of stories we ought to be telling so that we convey the message of
hope to people who are struggling.kobi and lines for life together really launched and built this
initiative called breaking the silence to equip newsrooms to do that job right. craig: yeah and it
is a difficult thing for news organizations to talk about because of contagion.can you break that
down in case viewers dont know what that is quite simply? dwight: so 2 really interesting data
points.one we know if news organizations report about suicide in a way thats sensationalistic
that isolates like one factor and says oh it was because of this a couple of things like that, that it
can create a risk of contagion, what some folks might think of as copycats.but the other data
point and the one thats really exciting is that we also know that if news organizations report on
suicide in a responsible way and a way that connects people to resources in a way that talks
about the hope, for example the folks who live through this and gone forward to have
wonderful lives, that we can actually reduce suicide in a community. and thats why journalists
from all over oregon have come together to do this breaking the silence initiative.were looking
to take it national, born right here in this studio. craig: yeah, thats incredible. craig: welcome
back to our five on 5, again were here with dwight holton the executive director of lines for
life.people are watching and they themselves are struggling or they have a loved one, what do
you recommend they do just to make sure theyre aware of the resources? dwight: so you
should always feel comfortable to reach out.lines for life is a part of the national suicide
prevention lifeline network. you can find us at 1-800-273-talk and any time of day we are
always there with thoughtful compassionate folks ready to help you find a way forward for
yourself or help you with a friend or loved one. craig: good to see you again, thank you so
much.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Feb 26 • 7:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_120

Milwaukee police say a man shot 5 people to death this afternoon a local brewery complex
before the shooter apparently killed himself truck from Bach member station WWL AM has the
story the shooting occurred just West of downtown Milwaukee and Molson Coors facility where
Miller beer is brewed police say the shooter was a 51 year-old local man whose wounds were
108

apparently self-inflicted the 5 people killed were Molson Coors employees locking mayor Tom
Barrett told a news briefing that was a tragic day by families 6 families that are grieving and
living breathing because of this horrific act of this individual Wisconsin governor Toney heaters
says it's a tragedy for the entire state and that he and his wife will be praying for the victims.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 26 • 11:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_121

an update now on the nine-year-old a Australian boy whose mom pleaded in an online video
about bullying disney I.T. knew was an Australian reports of the family now says his 700000
dollars raised online for a trip to disney will instead be donated to charity to help tackle a child
suicide
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Feb 27 • 3:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_122

there's new information about yesterday shooting in milwaukee that left 5 people dead the
gunmen who also killed himself was identified as Anthony ferrell an electrician police chief Al
Punto Mirallas says they're searching his home of 51 year-old resident of milwaukee he was a
current employee of Moulson coors the time of this incident he did not offer a motive for the
attack and said the investigation continues
KOHD (ABC)
Feb 26 • 11:10 PM

B_FEB_OREG_119

and hot topic today a gunman opened fire at the most and corps brewing company campus in
milwaukee, wisconsin today, killing 5 people police say say the shooter an active employee at
the company also killed himself nancy chan has the details from new york. >> a gunman opened
fire at the most and course brewing company campus in milwaukee officers located the
suspect. >> a 51 year-old more key man deceased from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot
wound. we have located 5 additional deceased adult victims. the victims all worked at most of
course. >> the latest us mass shooting erupted wednesday afternoon at the sprawling complex
they thought they were going to go >> to work. >> finish their day return to their families. and
tragically they never well we're a family here to most includes in in more key and this is an
unthinkable tragedy for us. >> during a news conference about coronavirus president trump
spoke about the milwaukee victims. >> our hearts break for them and their loved ones we send
our condolences will be with them. >> many details remained unclear as officers put on tactical
gear employees were warned by email to find a safe place to hide, neighboring schools went on
lockdown. >> all of us for just come in shock because we didn't know was going on. >> police
said there was no longer an active threat.

109

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 27 • 5:31 PM

B_FEB_WASH_123

we're still tracking the civil case filed by the family of a missing woman against the state of
washington and today jurors heard testimony from the investigator who was assigned to josh
powell. the likely suspect in the disappearance of his wife susan his testimony will help jurors
answer the ultimate question is washington state responsible for the death of the couple's 2
young boys or does the blame fall on the father josh powell. >> steve kiggins has more from
tacoma. >> they were searching for affection in that home there was none detective sergeant
barry sanders from the pierce county sheriff's department recalls what he saw during search of
the home where josh powell and his 2 kids and father an extended family after leaving utah and
jobs room whose brother josh's hit a bag toenail clippings i mean a huge downsize bag of
toenail clippings hair clippings. had a huge turnout dole. a papier-mache terror attack was
hanging from a noose in this room even though investigators found child and josh powells
father's computers, the state awarded custody of josh's children with their missing mother's
family. but dnc just still love their father to have supervised visits were you present for any of
the year. yes. i think it was at every dependency hearing from. the time the boys replace. and
until they were killed he was during one of those visitations that charlie and braden powell
were killed by their father josh in a murder suicide at the pew home in 2012. susan cox's family
insist the state should have known the danger the 2 boys room, but the state argues but well
before the murders police didn't have the evidence required to limit josh unsupervised visits or
to intervene even have to the children made troubling statements during interviews what did
you do. >> to 4 that apartment on march, 10 of 2010 of your concerns for at that time that
night and that night i did nothing. that you didn't have enough to take him protective custody
of >> not at that time no i did not causing a testimony this week the jury got to hear
excruciating details from the 911 call from social workers who made that call seeking help when
josh paul took those boys away from that supervised visit next week we're expecting to hear
from susan powells father who takes the scene.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 27 • 12:00 AM

B_FEB_OREG_120

5 people being killed in a mass shooting at a brewery head coaches in the U.S. city of
milwaukee any said the 51 year-old gunman had apparently killed himself all dead including the
gunman where employees of the Moulson cool brewery the lieutenant governor of the state of
Wisconsin and bombs said more must be done to prevent gun violence also one issue call a
challenge because we should accept it is not the way things should be we should never grow
comfortable in the face of these repeated tragedies all across America and especially right here
at home we have a duty to act we have to be more responsible and The city as they are as a
nation to stop these preventable tragedies happen it doesn't happen anywhere else but here.

110

KTVL (CBS)
Feb 27 • 12:12 PM

B_FEB_OREG_121

the investigation into a deadly mass shooting in wisconsin is now a day old, but authority haves
said little about the man who killed himself and five others at the brewery. they have said
almost nothing about a possible motive and have not identified him. >> reporter: the city of
milwaukee is searching for answers aftera gunman killed five people at a brewery on
wednesday. it happened at the molson coors plant. a sprawling 20 building complex in an area
known as miller town. the entire campus was placed on lock down after the first shots were
reported at 2:08 p.m. police officers from milwaukee and nearby marquette university
swarmed the facility along with fbi and atf agents. >> we were all pretty scared. i mean, we
were watching the live streams on tv to see what was going on outside. we couldn't see
anything. >> reporter: investigators say the gunman turned his weapon on himself. the ceo
confirmed the man was an active brewery employee and so were his five victims. >> if i
wouldn't have gone to talk to this guy, i would be one of them guys. i would have walked right?
>> reporter: the victims will be remembered this evening at a nearby church. the pastor said he
wanted to give people an opportunity to "mourn, pray, and just be together." naomi ruckham,
cbs news, new york
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Feb 26 • 11:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_122

5 people have been killed in a mass shoo ting to brewery had courses in the U.S. city of
milwaukee police said the 51 year-old gunmen had power he killed himself and 4 issues seems
on Kaya the tenant governor of the state of Wisconsin man dead bonds said more must be
done to prevent gun violence where you're at the scene of another American tragedy to assist
with American tragedy one that shouldn't have happened Unfortunately it's in our backyard
this is the 11th national in our state since 2004 we should accept this is not the way things
should be we have a duty to act.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Feb 27 • 12:33 PM

B_FEB_WASH_124

this afternoon, investigators are working to figure out what led up to the deadly shooting of five
people. this happened yesterday at the molson coors brewery in milwaukee. police have yet to
identify the person who then killed himself before -- or after killing his doe workers. >> if i
wouldn't have gone to talk to this guy, if it was to relieve me, i would be one of them guys. i
know that for a fact because i would have walked right into it when it was going on. >> the
gunman also worked at the brewery but little else is known about him. the victims will be
remembered tonight at a vigil.

111

KONG-SEA
Feb 27 • 11:05 AM

B_FEB_WASH_125

one of the largest breweries remains closed this morning following a mass shooting that
happened just yesterday. a man walked into molson coors complex in milwaukee, wisconsin,
and open fire. he killed five people before he turned the gun on himself and killed himself.
molson coors said the worker currently work for them. investigators have not said much and
they are working to determine a motive.
FM News 101 KXL
Feb 27 • 3:35 PM

B_FEB_OREG_123

welcome back to lori Swanson telling us thursday night conspiracy very very fast I mentioned
there is if you listen to the show regularly you know that I don't believe in suicide and
somebody asked me about and I would talk about tried to talk him out of it I'm disturbed by the
increasing number of places in the United States that seem to think that suicide is okay and I
hear from people say well what somebody is an incredible torturous pain and dying of a
terminal illness and said listen suicide and allowing it under government sanction is a bit like
being pregnant you can't be a little bit pregnant you either bar or you're not and the minute
you let that camel's nose under the tent and you say well the government allows suicide for
people an intractable intractable pain you know where and we have figured out a lot about
pain relief over the last few decades especially about how to relieve people's pain when they
are dying of a terminal illness is we're only getting used it for the most extreme cases and then
you're going to say what about this person who's not going to die right away but they have a
terrible illness or an affliction that that is going to make their life very very difficult he's okay
will allow for that like I said you can be a little bit pregnant one she say a little bit suicide is okay
then you're signing on all this well my friend Wesley Smith who writes for the national review
on life issues like this point Germany's highest judicial body I guess the equivalent of the
German Supreme court has overturned a legal ban on professional assisted suicide that's what
they're caught they don't even call doctor-assisted suicide it's judge Andreas Voss cool at the
federal constitutional court as Wright said the right to self-determined death includes the
freedom to take one's life and seek help in doing so the court also surprised observers by
explicitly stating the the right to assisted suicide services should not be limited to the serious or
incurable feel the freedom to choose one's death they say is guaranteed in all stages of a
person's existence this right to receive help a dying will not be limited to doctor-assisted suicide
an earlier ruling legalized assisted suicide for reasons that do not include a financial
consideration so imagine somebody is terribly depressed says I think just ended all well the
German high court says okay you of state assistant writers state right to go out and seek
assistance and can you imagine the person would say I will help you die because you don't want
to live anymore Let's go to Ed whose naysayer am welcome the lars larson Joe what's on your
mind tonight well I think that I just kind of disagree with that I think it should be a certain
amount of socialized medicine only to provide clinics there's much as possible so the people
that can't afford going to regular doctors said they can be helped well we had that we have
today in the form of Medicaid which is aimed at core people and an amazing number of people
112

is gone are on medicaid right now so we have that already we already have it stand it I
understand it but I knew she talking about something beyond that had a bad they get beyond
necessarily giving money to support that like this fade time and they actually taking money out
of Medicaid because they wanted to bring in the obama affordable health care act they be
won't know Ashley Ashley you're correct about that obama care dramatically expanded
Medicaid and the States that signed up for it and you are in a state that's Signed up for that
expanded Medicaid they are in fact allowing Medicaid now is there a point where you make too
much money to qualify for absolutely there is but when you say you want some socialized
medicine we've already got more than enough right now Let's go to devon devon walk the lars
larson show what's on your mind they are liars the with nato for a while I did Yeah good topics
and I'm I was thinking of becoming a better person a cabana about jail time and fines well I only
said some legal consequences because I don't think every single situation is the same just so
we're clear that I'm not saying jail time for everybody who split from quarantine but I think
there might be cases where that would be appropriate why that's I think and I think there
should be some kind of a fine but if you knowingly are spreading the virus that killed people like
if you know you have hiv and you're gone infect bunch of people like that's attempted
manslaughter so if you're if you know you're in a country that have lived that cuts and you
decide to come back and skip quarantine like year after around her neck and kill people see and
and there you've just gotten into a couple of other terms who if Let's say I had gone to China I
never have an idea I don't know whatever well I have no interest in but fight came back from a
place where there is a current buyers but I've no reasonably by haven't but they say we like to
quarantine for two weeks I would cooperate with that and I think people decide and escape
that it's inconvenient or have to like this comedienne who came back and any flew back to
Seattle-Tacoma international airport and admitted that he sneaked out of quarantine I think
there ought to be some consequences whether it's jail whether it's fine I frankly think public
shaming alone would probably do the trick and what's really amazing is that woman it who's
now in omaha nebraska all Bush she's from california and and she literally admitted that she
lied she and her husband lied to get out tested in Japan and never got the results back and we
made up the story that we were clear and then on the flight overnight who came down with a
fever I guess what her husband now has full blown corrode virus which means they came back
on a flight they lied about being cleared because of the testing and they knew that they had not
been cleared that kind of thing and and except that were really disappointed me was that
woman was interviewed on bill hemmer show on Fox news I like bill alive I consider my God you
know great friend but he didn't Press him on her saying did you think about the moral
implications of the ethical implications of saying I don't want to.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 27 • 11:15 AM

B_FEB_WASH_126

… it said Epstein didn't kill himself was a conversation that was going so that has been a topic of
about whether Knight F being killed himself not the going to start because you have a lot to say
about this topic not that much that only one thing to say about it he didn't kill himself we did all
right bertha nothing he did himself a simple it's Super something I don't know why I have no
idea why this thing I do think it's funny though because now athletes started ending interviews
113

with F.C. to kill himself we've got a flows the Mardi Gras it's become kind of this pretty funny
pretty ironic gesture but it does really change the facts you really don't think it did I really do I
think it's completely plausible that he is one of the 5000 people who kill themselves in custody
in jail last year I think it's possible he was he was facing life in prison separation from as well
certainly separation from his status what other person a better candidate and this whole idea
that he had this trove of information to prevent him from being killed are right will he was
killed in the worst I think he was I think he was killed because he did have a so much
information that aware but what if you knew that that was a threat if you are keeping that
information to keep yourself safe which has been the narrative right right place you would have
a fail safe if you got killed like all right the whole reason to keep you alive is that information
then gets out right that's that's the whole buttress against getting killed is look I got information
that can be released even upon my death that is why you want a killing fair enough outlets as if
you want to believe that narrative and then and I think that steve had a lot of times it's one
vote I think he had a lot of time to get rid of all of that information he didn't want to get rid of it
is protected him don't get it I said this is the thing like people can square the action if you
believe that he did im then where is it now we have seen one photo one of the other I think
there was a shock I think it was a shock amongst the billionaires that they thought he would
actually go to jail nobody thought that that dude would go to jail but I don't know but that still
doesn't explain anything he was worried about somebody about to be he had information on
people reportedly powerful people who were then going to intervene and keep him O if they
wanted him to die it and he felt like they wanted him to die sure right then he had information
on them kept alive with assessment shared understanding the same the same information he
had on him he had on himself to that but but anybody can already in jail what you care and this
is the whole point like the narrative doesn't square when people keep trying to say the guy was
killed me ask you this drew huge and arrow get all crazy we came to the conspiracy theories
because the Yes this one but just ahead the other day Dr. Barbara ZF and she was a key witness
in harvey wine stain proud she was hit by a car last night the just coincidence after he was to
victim evicted and get the public know about the hug about Kevin Spacey's about some of those
people that have gone native he committed suicide died randomly some of those witnesses
well do I think kevin Spacey preyed on people and Yeah absolutely to prey on people who may
have like self-worth issues and may have may be going down the track Like that gout to could
they have been traumatized by what he did to him Yeah could that person commits suicide
Yeah does that mean they were suicide by somebody we owe as he didn't kill himself so we will
do this this next one.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Feb 28 • 4:05 PM

B_FEB_WASH_127

we're learning more about the person who died last night in pierce county near gig harbor
following a chase with law enforcement. >> according to the medical examiner's office 35 yearold trevor messenger died after crashing a truck and then shooting himself now this all started
when troopers tried to pull him over after he was allegedly going 25 over on highway 16 in
kitsap county. they say he did initially but then sped away. troopers and sheriff's deputies
chased him into pierce county for that truck crash near state route 3 oh 2 100 54th street and
114

then rolled down a wooden of wooded embankment. after the crash, a shot was fired from
inside the truck and then law enforcement fired their weapons. again the medical examiner
later ruled that the suspect died because of suicide.
KEZI (ABC)
Feb 28 • 4:25 PM

B_FEB_OREG_124

this morning, lane community college hosted training to help people identify and respond to
veterans in crisis. one out of every four suicides in lane county is a veteran. for many, the
traumatic experiences don't stay on the battlefield. traumatic brain injuries and post traumatic
stress disorder are all too common. the leader of the course - who is a veteran - said more
people need to be trained as mental health first responders. i feel that a lot of awareness needs
to be put out there as well as removing the stigma behind understanding of mental disorders
and mental crises that many of our veterans go through the first aid class teaches the acronym
'al-gee' to help people respond in crises. first, assess the risk of suicide. listen nonjudgmentally. give re-assurance and information. encourage appropriate professional help. and
finally, encourage self-help or other strategies.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 28 • 6:10 PM

B_FEB_WASH_128

… cutting down on gun problem if you are really cut down on people got two pieces one 66% of
people that use a gun put fired only once and they have great game as they themselves right in
the head that's the majority people that kill themselves with guns the other part of it people
have guns are very very small percentage of the population they tend to be Unfortunately black
shooting other black people and they are a certain age range and they come from certain
demographic that is the other big chunk that's the other big chunk of people are using guns but
the majority is suicide so you really want to try to reduce guns killing people have to be
somebody killing themselves start to look into the mental health well that I cared he's a
minimum wage and health care are two things the things could be addressed to make this
world a better place certainly not violence wouldn't be as as a parent it's not gun violence it's
people that have incredibly low self-esteem or mentally ill and killed himself right at Woody
Allen's horrible joke is the highest form of of them self-criticism suicide but the idea is that
somebody majority people use a gun wants and kill themselves with or somebody else that's all
he but he wants more government control what's more government involved determining the
value of somebody who works in a place.
AM 860
Feb 27 • 9:54 PM

B_FEB_OREG_125

… I wrote about in his book see something say nothing well haiti was found dead and initial
report their undead 40 miles East of Sacramento in Plymouth california on a highway outside
his car a gun next to his car in the initial report was self-inflicted gunshot wound that he had
committed suicide but that has now been recanted the sheriff's office in Amador County
115

California has since described the initial reports as misinformation name ass well the fbi for
assistance in investigating Haiti's death Unfortunately there was misinformation immediately
being put out that we have determined Mr. he needs we had determined the trainees after isis
like that's not the case we're currently in the beginning phase of her investigation and any final
determination as to the cause and manner of Mr. Lee's death would be extremely prima sure
and in appropriate noted termination will be made until all the evidence is examined analyzed
thought it was curious I was curious the nature of the suicide I highway he's outside his car a
gun outside his car that's where you choose to commit suicide I don't know if he ultimately did
or didn't just asking questions because the circumstances were curious and barely the sheriff's
office finds circumstances curious to so stick on the story.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 28 • 4:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_129

Happening now, investigators are trying to figure out why the driver of a pick-up truck ran from
troopers during a rue een traffic stop. the investigator says the driver shot at troopers. the man
died in the vehicle after the troopers opened fire. komo's keith eldridge is live where it
happened in the pierce county town of purdy. keith? >> reporter: yes, this is where it
happened. this is where it came to an end. we're just off of highway 302. this is where the truck
came crashing through this guardrail, went down the embankment and went down below, but
it started several miles to the knot of here in kitsap county that was around 8:45. the state
patrol says the map in the truck crashed after he led then on a high-speed chase down highway
16. and they pulled him offense for speeding, but they say he took off and they chased him
from kitsap county down into pierce county and he apparently dit make the -- didn't make the
turn and down the open bankment -- down the embankment into his back yard. >> it is not the
first time that place had an accident. it is just a bad corner. so i thought somebody was injured,
so i went up there to help and len i stepped out, immediately all i heard was he has a begin, and
then immediately gun fire after that. >> and he had fired shots at them and they had rushed
fire. >> reporter: that is the pierce county sheriff. they're taking over the investigation. the state
patrol is not actually investigating itself. the medical examiner says the man actually shot and
killed himself. he is identified as 5-year-old trevor messen -- 35-year-old trevor messenger from
puyallup. again, he took a gun to his own head and pulled the trigger. they say basically it was a
suicide. now, one trooper is on paid administrative leave which is routine in this kind of case.
KINK Radio
Feb 28 • 6:21 AM

B_FEB_OREG_126

story about the australian boy he's 9 years old he was equating bail he was being bullied so
badly over his dwarfism they wanted to kill himself and celebrities reached out with people all
over the world reached Al gold fund was set up to sing little boy and his family to disneyland
look into upper the both 2000 $ right ended up raising nearly 500000 dollars record money
good as dizzyingly and get a large soda you I sure hope anyway the family had decided not to go
to disney after all they want to donate the money to charity every bit of it that's amazing

116

organizations will benefit include dwarfism awareness Australia stop Al bullying and Lady
Gaga's born this way Foundation.
News Radio KEX
Feb 27 • 11:00 PM

B_FEB_OREG_127

Milwaukee police identified the gunman who killed 5 people in Wednesday's mass shooting at
the former Miller Brewing brewery he was an employee 51 year-old Anthony pharaoh who
killed himself after all mayor Tom Barrett our families are hurting Molson Coors family is
hurting and Miller families are hurting our city is hurting but victims were all men aged 57.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Feb 28 • 3:49 PM

B_FEB_WASH_130

we have just learned the flame of the woman who was found dead inside her maple valley
home last week. the king county medical examiner has identified her as julia howell and her
death has been ruled a homicide. just days after her body was found, the king county police
department said jason howell killed himself outside their maple valley precinct office.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 28 • 6:36 AM

B_FEB_WASH_131

a trial against the state of washington claiming the state should've done more for susan powell
to protect their grandkids. her husband josh powell was under suspicion for her disappearance
and in 2012 powell killed himself and the couple's two boys. the boys grandparents want to
know why the state would allow visitation in a setting where josh powell had control which
shows negligence
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Feb 28 • 5:00 PM

B_FEB_WASH_132

we're learning more about the deaths of a maple Valley husband and wife the King County
Sheriff's office now calling it a murder-suicide the King County medical examiner classified Julia
howls death as a homicide caused by strangulation her body was found inside her home more
than 3 weeks later after she failed to show up for an appointment at a hair salon jason how
shot himself to death according to authorities in the parking lot.
KONG-SEA
Feb 28 • 8:31 AM

B_FEB_WASH_133

a civil trial against the state of washington resumes on monday with the parents of susan
powell claiming that the state should have done more to protect the grandsons. susan powell
was last seen more than a decade ago. her husband was under suspicion for her disappearance.
then in 2012 josh powell killed their two boys and themselves during what was supposed to be
117

a supervised visit. the boys grandparents want to know why they would allow situations like
this where he had control. they claim it shows negligence for >>> police say the man who
opened fire in a milwaukee brewery had worked there for more than a decade. five employees
were killed before the gunman killed himself. the victims were electricians, powerhouse
operators, and machinists of the facility. they will keep the brain really closed indefinitely.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Feb 27 • 11:14 PM

B_FEB_OREG_128

the governor of wisconsin ordered flags at half-staff one day after a deadly shooting. >> five
died and the gunman killed himself at a milwaukee brewery. >> molson coors brewery is calling
for unity after a worker opened fire, killing five before turning the gun on himself. >> we're a
family here at molson coors in milwaukee and this is an unthinkable tragedy for us. >> that
tragedy unfolding wednesday afternoon. molson coors c.e.o. described the sheeter at an active
brewery employee. the gunman shot and killed himself. beyond the five other workers killed,
no others were injured in the shooting. molson coors is one of the largest breweries in the
nation. it's milwaukee location has more than a thousand employees. despite its size, fellow
employees describe the campus as more like a family, saying the impact of the tragedy is far
reaching. >> i'd ask you to stay close with him and particularly to families of those who lost
their lives. >> the state's lt. governor said this is the 11th mass shooting in wisconsin in 16
years. wisconsin lawmakers reigniting the debate on gun control saying it's time for action. >>
this is something that we should never come to accept as a society. >> employees say this latest
tragedy send as clear message. >> it's heartbreaking, a reminder that you just really never
know. >>> amman convicted of murder will spend more than 32 years in prison after
investigators found another man's body in a rural area. he was found guilty earlier this mix on
several charges including first degree murder and arson. he killed brian boatle last year. the
body was found near a burned van seven miles east of cougar. belander was arrested three
months ago.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Feb 28 • 6:39 PM

B_FEB_WASH_134

authorities say the man at the center of a police shooting in pierce county actually killed
himself. it happened last night on highway 302 near gig harbor. pierce county sheriff detectives
says it started with a chase involving state troopers that ended in a crash. investigators at first
thought the man shot at troopers forcing them to fire back. tonight, the pierce county medical
examiner reports the man's gunshot wound was self- inflicted.
88.5 KNKX
Feb 29 • 11:35 AM

B_FEB_WASH_135

welcome back the snap judgment the watching over Bobby notes episode went to Washington
and one last thing left and less responding to emergency calls for 6 months of zero training she
hasn't lost a single person but that might be about to change and I Blues anyone for 6 months
118

then she got another call there's a possible suicide tourism so commuters to very candid
needed police since the Bryans and boy it was a little older than and son Raymond to his high
school's valedictorian earlier that day he just put his happened down on his graduation picture
when she got here at the front window was broken and school principal standing helplessly at
fact Cordish and found twice body inside it's not every day that you see a CEO and it's very hard
to mind you is the first suicide and hadn't been able to stop and her 6 months as a mountain
village police officer She called the Alaska state troopers for backup they're required to respond
when there's a death in the community then she sighed heavily on quite bryant front porch and
waited it's always hard when somebody tries to take like before their time was over because
you know they're rubbing himself to potential of why they're here the troopers showed up
about two hours later they asked me to not let anybody in earned the host's tip off the building
keep its key here she stood watch outside the dead boy's House for another 18 hours until 4 5
in the morning and one point and overheard one of the troopers directing his team into the
House he said the start examining and take pictures and stuff like that that's when it hit her
there wasn't a gun at the scene of a suicide which meant that kobe bryant had killed himself.
88.5 KNKX
Feb 29 • 11:27 AM

B_FEB_WASH_136

… it was I saw had a bullet in my office by the way a pickup was a reminder of how close was
assist the first person whose life you say if Yes and it doesn't get any easier her whenever and
response to a suicide she has to fill out this form called a title 47 am if she needs to send the
survivor away to hospital the nearest one is a 100 miles away this is just the fear this is just the
last couple pass I just read Yeah you'll see repeats this is another repeat from could T this is
number floor on her for repeat so far her I'm just one person find she is she's 15 muscle
movement the key year-old girl tried 5 times to commit suicide doesn't that scream more than
helped she doesn't think they're getting the care they need that nearby hospital is understaffed
and Alaska state hospitals routinely run out of bed for people we eat a few bites the pork chops
and prices for some 10 rushes Kari shaky com and watch how it really nosh so so said temps
does make me feel really sick I attempted suicide when I was so young at one point they tried
to take a handful of pills and survived and his family kept running out of clothes and heating
field Choo's canada but she got together with her first boyfriend she felt like she was
transitioning away from becoming a different person I think it was because he's always make
you laugh were both really on Earth he was already reviewed themes she got pregnant and had
her first child a little blinding rain and I was 16 I knew leave women was just a baby I was going
through a really bad phase with a boyfriend at the time and I really depressed and I couldn't
take it anymore I felt like I had nobody each turn to nobody to talk to eliminate it T was shoved
off brush often sold as I took a handful of pills I was so kind her cousin found her and ran to get
help and was flown to a nearby hospital like everyone else my members are waking up and
seeing the hospital why it's looking over and seeing mouth cause really worried face he seemed
anxious or nervous and got some water and remembers thinking both Graham and and then it
really hit me of exactly host to put violence and how selfish I was being did you think anything
specific about Raymond that moment Yeah I wanted to be there for him and his future I was
wondering I do nobody else can provide for your kids better than their mom or their dad and so
119

I wanted to be there to watch you grow you know I had to learn how to live from there on out
to as a mother and as a person how to live how to break the cycle of abuse and alcohol the
destruction and then her kids rely on each other sometimes her kids just show up she's
responding to calls the late Princess steady and the middle of that suicide attempt.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Feb 29 • 11:56 AM

B_FEB_WASH_137

reporter teresa cuts Grillo's roll along with enough that the summer of 2018 I've been chatting
with each other every sense and it is still a police officer in mountain village she's working for
tribe now getting better compensation she has some geared EU EU partner on the police force
son Raymond awaiting trial also says not villages suicide rate seems to be getting better which
she attributes to grass-roots programs at community started and sells also think jim you this
brian and share your story with us and with that Kathy Moses and not a religious tribal Council
for all the time and patience if you or a loved one is struggling with suicidal thoughts help is
available 24 hours a day please call the National suicide Prevention hotline.
88.5 KNKX
Feb 29 • 11:15 AM

B_FEB_WASH_138

the town keeps hiring police officers but they generally quit after a few weeks and spent most
of the past 6 months working on so what kind of training did she get Anna never had I didn't
even know what the hell the discovery pact was to be honest and I had no idea was close do
them thank God for watching a lot of French files on E knee and watching matlock and I always
kid mountain village didn't have the money to send and detect any kind of police Academy or it
turns out for anything else I didn't even have mace are handcuffed at one point another time
her truck broke down for a few weeks and and had to run from called call and because Anna
isn't trained police officer she's not certified to carry a gun this was not a job she ever thought
she House I just thought it was the most hilarious thing ever to be asked I mean why would you
be a bad candidate because I'm short in the role he everybody else in tones like they didn't
muscular the men get laws exit moose hunt sitting here I am just the only woman and also has
asthma which she says makes running after perks that challenge in my mind you know they're
going to hear me pleasing although though exactly how far behind I am from them when they
could hear a wheezing they know they got away But the man who was policing mountain village
of the time insisted she be that so and I decided to go fishing and praying that I'll be on my
knees under grown holding my Ducks picked steady as if truly nature the cannot let this guy
with two sons breeze coming toen not be as an inhaler deep breath medical delaying didn't just
crazy for every student is bothering me and I just think you guys take it so I should do
something like this I want to cite the first sign came from mountain villages current police
officer he giving application they encouraged me to apply the second one was just a little kid
that you can twist came in there like I deserve it is coming off surgery like not yet read off and I
I've never seen Nick kicked the staying you know we're like a blender you all are switched to
Angel the third sign came from a village elder she came and cheese she said that I would make
a really good police officer and I kind of smiled innocent off when putting my application and
120

today and today turning my application at 5 o'clock that evening I got sworn in and my shift
started at midnight but then the same cop who recommended and join fors promptly quit the
force and was on her it takes and about a minute to respond to a call about that fight was
stashed the paper plate green beans on a backseat and pull up in front of a dusty House near
the top of the Hill the front doors open and I watched and walk briskly inside then she Ducks
out and get on the phone rose the woman inside has tried to kill herself and removes a rope
and knife our House and frozen in the bath milk yogurt production co-pays a group of city
employees veer into the front yard on E td's not villages city manager pushes her way into the
House a full run it looks like someone just woke her up they need help caring the woman out
she's fighting back and catch her breath from Reps say her is that a lower court it neither can
we come to its some point I realized that and his daughter Princess is here to she's juggling her
green basketball in front of the House pretending to play it really just watching us I'm
responding to a call Princess and shouts and this forced cheerful voice and her daughter I'm so
let me a few guys from mountain villages water and sewer Department show a lot and they
hold the woman into the back of a pickup was a broken door the closest thing mound which
passed an ambulance and is the one who's going to drive the truck so we hafta switch cars she
asked me to grab the evidence out of the old one and the group of your and my swing me it's a
very vaccine can get the phones of energy even my okay I think they were a few men jumped in
the bathtub the kids have to restrain the woman and swerves down held witch mountain
villages small health this makes for different people 54 different people who attempted suicide
in about 6 months if we con very pizza led 60.7 and If you've been a first responder all Yes
according to Anna police records between 5 and 7% of the town's entire population and
attempted suicide and a six-month period Anna has helped save them all she's responded to up
to 3 suicide attempts and day she's cut down people are trying to hang themselves she hasn't
lost anyone I that's right and to save a woman's life in her night is just getting started snap
judgment stay a snap judgment thank you for joining us we will continue with more the
program on 88 5 your independent station kn kx support radiate 5 comes from my bait
employee owned and providing customized nutrition recommendations to help cats and dogs
stock life healthy pet food create toys and surprised at my base store doors now opening
Kirkland in the curve of the urban shopping center information that my baby Dotcom Seattle
Opera presenting Charlie Parker's yard bird the bee bop innovators ghost travel back bird land
hoping to complete the final masterpiece the score future operatic singing with the spirit of gas
now through March 7 at McCaw Hall details at Seattle Opera Doc or rg jazz mixed with the
rhythms from all over the world it's the music that moves Latin jazz classics and sounds local
and international artists I'm Rob lloyd join me for just a day today at 5 p.m. here on 88 5 km kx
back to snap judgment on 88 5 K and kx snap judgment is supported by progressive insurance
providing tools designed to help customers consider options from multiple insurers
comparisons available at progressive dot-com or 100 progressive now that's progressive like
steph judgment and watching over mountain village episode last week left and it just helps save
a woman's life it is not the first time and not be the last step just he dropped off the woman
who attempted suicide at the clinic have to get out of her bloody clothes carrying bloody
clothes she didn't wear gloves during a suicide attack the city mountain village sometimes runs
out of its own with a bloody clothes all they like myself what I call it a bloody dirty look at me
wonder what that I scared that Anna says gallows humor keeps you going and this job I'm not
121

really sure how to react to be honest so pretty soon I'm laughing tail on God just whatever they
choose in the party LaRose a Grand jury and right now and her kids are living in a two-room
House that doesn't have plumbing she only makes 13 $ an hour an old friend of hers is over
they're taking care of things allow payments network he's watching rogue one on and some can
Couch she's a former mountain village police officer.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Feb 29 • 11:51 AM

B_FEB_WASH_139

struggle that I our people are facing the reality that's going on behind everybody's stores and
it's mind boggling and sinks and her great Couch and we start watching movies we're about
halfway through Transformers once a text and a woman's boyfriend just threatened to kill
himself and I know him pretty well find out and gets a call give any plans to harm yourself give
any plans to harm others so what's your safety plan and time and can you tell me why accused
thank you thank you hannah built for sharing your story it's now reporter teresa cuts Grillo's roll
along with enough that the summer of 2018 I've been chatting with each other every sense and
it is still a police officer in mountain village she's working for tribe now getting better
compensation she has some geared EU EU partner on the police force son Raymond awaiting
trial also says not villages suicide rate seems to be getting better which she attributes to grassroots programs at community started and sells also think jim you this brian and share your story
with us and with that Kathy Moses and not a religious tribal Council for all the time and
patience if you or a loved one is struggling with suicidal thoughts help is available 24 hours a
day please call the National suicide Prevention hotline one
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Feb 29 • 8:13 PM

B_FEB_WASH_140

it's establishing essentially National suicide Prevention and mental health crisis hotline talk to
me about what specifically do you want Congress to do with mental health that right Yeah I
mean look at that across the hope she used improving quality here that that veterans receive
for mental health issues also reduce reducing barriers to care things like stigma no scheduling
hours things like that so I think one thing that we’re looking at it is is supporting Senate bill 75
which is the commander Jon scott hand but Aardsma care improvement act of 2020 in what
this would use it will be great you programs to extend these reached into the community and
expand current through nonprofits and really improving upstream interventions we're also
looking at him war richard and you work Mecca all right so precision medicine is one of the
areas that we're investing in and that's to foster Of for the research and collaboration on
biomarkers and also traumatic brain injuries appeared to most prevalent of mental health
challenges for the post 9 11 we were killed or it all on I knew him one of beauty and be
cooperation to proof run between both agencies I'm adult research transitions to grams so
we're looking at both political and non-clinical mental health initiatives along those lines but
but you're quickly but the National suicide how I wonder as a nation that absolutely what we're
looking at is creating 98 8 and the National suicide Prevention but I just want it hopefully buy
some before I didn't way to get the care and energy to get back into the call I'm going one of a
122

kind of a mental health crisis than big coal mining date and a passion to be your Pirker people
where are we with insuring this gets done in this legislative session do you have a commitment
from senators and congressman says these bills will pass or is this the kind of fight that just
needs to go on every year every week every day every month I think you know the thing to
keep in mind is important for her in this generation of veterans advocate for any sodium per of
older generations there's been more like a secret said kind of carry that burden you you're all
aware of some of the landmark legislation that passed but really won't were hoping to do is
really rally this generation of veterans around the issues that matter most to them it we really
can work both sides of the aisle and you better be nonpartisan manner so I think better
teachers are best served when everyone can be for middle and does what's right for our men
and women in uniform and for our or 20 million veterans across United States so I think you
know lead up to each individual to decide whether their Reps Sir are doing enough of those
regards the site are called make a wimpy typically see crater bipartisan cooperation and
support from the House and Senate veterans Affairs Committee said it's you know what it what
the shining example child of Yelp can come together to do what's right for America a better you
can find out more about what they're doing in D.C. and ways you can donate at wounded
warrior project Dato York and we'll be back with more after this.
88.5 KNKX
Feb 29 • 11:22 AM

B_FEB_WASH_141

watching over mountain village episode last week left and it just helps save a woman's life it is
not the first time and not be the last step just he dropped off the woman who attempted
suicide at the clinic have to get out of her bloody clothes carrying bloody clothes she didn't
wear gloves during a suicide attack the city mountain village sometimes runs out of its own with
a bloody clothes all they like myself what I call it a bloody dirty look at me wonder what that I
scared that Anna says gallows humor keeps you going and this job I'm not really sure how to
react to be honest so pretty soon I'm laughing tail on God just whatever they choose in the
party LaRose a Grand jury and right now and her kids are living in a two-room House that
doesn't have plumbing she only makes 13 $ an hour an old friend of hers is over they're taking
care of things allow payments network he's watching rogue one on and some can Couch she's a
former mountain village police officer himself he's also made dinner for us pork chops and
mashed potatoes we'd love to work is like this every Freddie give you your day Anna sinks and
the Couch it's around 7 o'clock and she's helped save one person this night not overreact the
job was relentless that Anna and Institute she has this ability to talk tech absolutely anyone
about pretty much anything and that comes in handy when you're trying to deescalate the
situation I'm Oracle talks someone down from suicide that was clear from and his very first call
it came around two in the morning Yeah that was a loaded gun the man in the village was
threatening to shoot himself and responded to the call alone and when she got to his House he
was standing on the porch with a shotgun under his chance you'll write bold my boat by
personal tragedy us is trying to see if I connect in a way to let them feel bad day's work down
the hall she talked to him for about 45 minutes about how she could understand but keeps
coming I know how it feels to be neglected I love she surrendered the guy and reluctantly I said
Hey can I take a look at it and I started cooking it was a fire it in I'm all in Michelle wear put it in
123

my pocket and it was I saw had a bullet in my office by the way a pickup was a reminder of how
close was assist the first person whose life you say if Yes and it doesn't get any easier her
whenever and response to a suicide she has to fill out this form called a title 47 am if she needs
to send the survivor away to hospital the nearest one is a 100 miles away this is just the fear
this is just the last couple pass I just read Yeah you'll see repeats this is another repeat from
could T this is number floor on her for repeat so far her I'm just one person find she is she's 15
muscle movement the key year-old girl tried 5 times to commit suicide doesn't that scream
more than helped she doesn't think they're getting the care they need that nearby hospital is
understaffed and Alaska state hospitals routinely run out of bed for people we eat a few bites
the pork chops and prices for some 10 rushes Kari shaky com and watch how it really nosh so so
said temps does make me feel really sick I attempted suicide when I was so young at one point
they tried to take a handful of pills and survived and his family kept running out of clothes and
heating field Choo's canada but she got together with her first boyfriend she felt like she was
transitioning away from becoming a different person I think it was because he's always make
you laugh were both really on Earth he was already reviewed themes she got pregnant and had
her first child a little blinding rain and I was 16 I knew leave women was just a baby I was going
through a really bad phase with a boyfriend at the time and I really depressed and I couldn't
take it anymore I felt like I had nobody each turn to nobody to talk to eliminate it T was shoved
off brush often sold as I took a handful of pills I was so kind her cousin found her and ran to get
help and was flown to a nearby hospital like everyone else my members are waking up and
seeing the hospital why it's looking over and seeing mouth cause really worried face he seemed
anxious or nervous and got some water and remembers thinking both Graham and and then it
really hit me of exactly host to put violence and how selfish I was being did you think anything
specific about Raymond that moment Yeah I wanted to be there for him and his future I was
wondering I do nobody else can provide for your kids better than their mom or their dad and so
I wanted to be there to watch you grow you know I had to learn how to live from there on out
to as a mother and as a person how to live how to break the cycle of abuse and alcohol the
destruction and then her kids rely on each other sometimes her kids just show up she's
responding to calls the late Princess steady and the middle of that suicide attempt and says
they like to check and see if she's okay was I carry my car I see my costs were all bloody sold
asking Pope can get my quick body goods for his Department video of girls Yeah I'm going to go
do that as soon as they feel what our calls and fast rule news andad and I'm really sorry am I
why am I go one and rest I am unwilling to another call got there with their okay Yeah I don't
time I did that I I thought it was bad I was a kid growing up.

124

