B_OCT_WASH_1

KPLU-FM (Radio)
Oct 1 • 6:05 PM
native Americans make up less than 2% of the population in Washington yet they represent
more than 4 and a half % of jail deaths that's according to a recent investigation by northwest
public radio stations in the case of Shannon jefferson she was booked into Whatcom County jail
for probation violation the for failing to appear in court and 4th degree assault charge 12 days
later she died by suicide in her isolation cell Jefferson was 36 years old and the mother of 6 the
family sued alleging the trail failed to provide a basic standard of care and ignored Jefferson's
high risk of suicide now the family and the County of settle that lawsuit for 300 and 50000
dollars with no admission of wrongdoing the family's attorney said he hopes the case ways to
improve mental health care in jail.
B_OCT_WASH_2

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 1 • 8:52 AM

the family of a woman who committed suicide while behind bars has settled a wrongful death
lawsuit against Walker County jail generous jefferson came herself her solitary confinement cell
in 2014 and was taken to a hospital where she died hours later according to Bellingham Herald
the 36 year-old was a Lummi tribal member and a mother of 6 a lawsuit alleging jefferson's
death could have been prevented she received warm mental health care.
KLSR (FOX)
Oct 1 • 7:54 AM

B_OCT_OREG_1

today marks the second anniversary of the deadliest mass shooting in modern u.s. history.
officials say a gunman shot and killed 58 people and injured nearly 700 others in the las vegas
massacre. the gunmen fired from the 32nd floor of the mandalay bay resort and casino into a
crowd of 22,000 concertgoers. according to witnesses, the shooting lasted between 10-15
minutes. officials later found the shooters hotel room and his body. police believe he killed
himself and no one else was involved. today, flies will be flown at half-staff at innovators that
capital and public buildings and grounds in rims of the buildings lives lost.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 1 • 6:07 PM

B_OCT_OREG_2

a teenager and klamath falls with a promising future died by suicide back in may and his mom
thinks somebody encouraged him to do it online. he was 17 years old and studying premed at
arizona state when he died. his mother later found he spent t aonline group called suicide
watch and she thinks somebody helped and encouraged him to take his own life. >> i have
1

three specific questions on how to kill himself in this person was an influence on him simply by
giving them all these specific information on how to kill himself with a gun . >>> authority say
it's possible to charge somebody with manslaughter for helping someone take their life, it is
difficult to prove. his mom thinks there should be a policy in place to make it easier . >>> there
should be some accountability for an adult person that encourages a minor person. i'm trying to
do what i can from my position to encourage legislators to consider this sort of an option . >>>
the local district attorney agrees and narrowly tailored policy would be beneficial to prevent
tragedies like…
KOBI
Oct 1 • 6:31 AM

B_OCT_OREG_3

students at umpqua community college will come together today.... to mark the tragic 4 year
anniversary of a mass shooting on the campus. it was on october 1, 2015.... that a 26 year old
gunman opened fire inside of a classroom... killing 8 students and one teacher... and injuring
nine others. the gunman ultimately took his own life after a shoot-out with police. still to this
day... the circumstances surrounding the shooting... including the shooter's motive.. remain a
mystery. the school will have a private ceremony for students who wish to participate. school
officials are asking for distance and respect as they continue to mourn. a suicide that happened
in klamath falls 5 months ago could prompt state legislation. 17 year old adrio romine of
arizona took his own life on may 11-th. his mother is concerned that an adult he met in a chat
room may have played a role. "my son had very specific questions on how to kill himself - this
person was an influence on him, simply by giving him all this specific information on how to kill
himself with a gun." "there should be some accountability for an adult person that encourages
a minor person to harm themselves." the klamath county sheriff has contacted state legislators
to consider making a law to hold those adults accountable. if you or someone you know is
struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time
to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KMVU (FOX)
Oct 1 • 7:30 AM

B_OCT_OREG_4

today.... to mark the tragic 4 year anniversary of a mass shooting on the campus. it was on
october 1, 2015.... that a 26 year old gunman opened fire inside of a classroom... killing 8
students and one teacher... and injuring nine others. the gunman ultimately took his own life
after a shoot-out with police. still to this day... the circumstances surrounding the shooting...
including the shooter's motive.. remain a mystery. the school will have a private ceremony for
students who wish to participate. school officials are asking for distance and respect as they
continue to mourn. a suicide that happened in klamath falls 5 months ago could prompt state
legislation. 17 year old adrio romine of arizona took his own life on may 11-th. his mother is
concerned that an adult he met in a chat room may have played a role. "my son had very
specific questions on how to kill himself - this person was an influence on him, simply by giving
him all this specific information on how to kill himself with a gun." "there should be some
2

accountability for an adult person that encourages a minor person to harm themselves." the
klamath county sheriff has contacted state legislators to consider making a law to hold those
adults accountable. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is
help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KMVU (FOX)
Oct 1 • 10:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_5

the case of an arizona teen who took his own life in klamath falls 5 months ago may soon
trigger state legislation. 17 year old adrio romine took his own life on may 11-th. his mother is
concerned that an adult he met in a chat room may have played a role. "my son had very
specific questions on how to kill himself - this person was an influence on him, simply by giving
him all this specific information on how to kill himself with a gun." "there should be some
accountability for an adult person that encourages a minor person to harm themselves." the
klamath county sheriff contacted state legislators to consider making a law to hold those adults
accountable. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help
available. You can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 1 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_6

memorial service held today for the cowlitz county battalion chief who died by suicide. the
body of mike zanefeld was escorted. hundreds of friends, family, first responders and
coworkers lined the streets to pay their respects. he battle add job related injury and stress n. a
statement sunday the family said until mental health is viewed the same as any physical injury
we will continue to lose our heroes. it's been nearly six months sunsets deputy justin at the
rowser was shot and killed in the line of duty leaving his infant daughter. today was lillian's first
birthday. this birthday was also a fund wraizer with people paying $30 each all going toward
little lillian. the owner of the restaurant, fiesta bonita, says they will hold this celebration every
year in until lillian's quinceanera. >> we never really thought about it until he passed. i thought,
okay, i have to make this real. this is a good way to maintain justin in our community alive. his
memory. >> people attending can get a stamp and lillian passport for each year they attends. if
they have a stamp every year for the next 15 years they will get a discount for the big
quinceanera.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 1 • 12:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_7

the community is paying tribute to a firefighter who died by suicide early this month. battalion
chief mike zainfield , he had been with the department for 25 years. we want to give you look
at that procession. you can see hot it has moved towards our camera. you can see the flashing
lights in the distance. this started about 30 minutes ago at the fire station on ninth street. it will
3

end at new life fellowship church on 47th avenue. his family released a statement is says in
part, again for he was loved by many and respected by all. this tragedy does not defined
mickel's commitment to his family and the community. instead, we asked for this to redefine
how we see mental health in first responders, how it is looked at." the funeral, we will be
streaming it live on kgw.com and on our Facebook page and you two pages. will have much
more coverage, coming up on kgw news at 4:00. >>> if you or somebody you know needs help,
or you just need somebody to talk to. the suicide prevention hotline number is available 24
seven. this number is now on your screen. it is 800 273 8255.
KTVZ (NBC)
Oct 1 • 8:10 AM

B_OCT_OREG_8

kate, you had mentioned that is thdy stu orar sevel studies th at show that lgbtq youth are
more likely to contemplate suicide, three times. >> three times more likely than other use to
contemplate suicide which is just stunning i want to talk about what people can do there's a
really great group called the trevor project that works to prevent suicide in that community
specifically they suggest a few things, be careful about who you share with on social media. i
know that sounds obvious they also say try to block negativity by using comment controls
available on most platforms, and most important piece of advice for young people is find a
trusted adult and that way if something happens if you're outed before you're ready, you have
someone you can talk to. maybe it's a parent. maybe it's a friend. and if someone you know
needs help, there's a phone number we want to put up it's the trevor lifeline, available 24/7
866-488-7386
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 2 • 2:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_9

The vast majority of gun deaths in this country are suicides but most americans don't know that
according to a new national poll cons america's Future's and has more 60% of gun deaths in
America are suicides but when it comes to firearms fatalities americans think of murder new
poll from the E.P.A. research lab called mind and guns in America have 58% think some for
homicide is responsible for the most gun deaths fully one quarter attributed the most gun dest
mass shootings that's all wrong data and Jennifer steve her co-founder of forefront suicide
Prevention city needs to change that the public had a better understanding about I think one
might be putting more resources toward the issue and Prevention which is very much under
funded but also we would be thinking about policy solution perhaps a bit differently the poll
found the misperception be consistent across rural and urban areas the summer read Joe
fluctuation for guns in America.
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 2 • 6:40 AM

B_OCT_OREG_10

two of oregon senators are being recognized for joining forces to fight for better mental health
care. last night former oregon republican senator-- "gordon smith"-- and democrat-- "ron
4

wyden"-- were celebrated at an awards dinner-- presented by the "national alliance on mental
illness." the two senators served together in the senate for 12-years. smith"-- presented
"wyden"-- with the "gordon and sharon smith new freedom award." it was first presented to
the smiths eleven years ago... for their efforts to prevent suicide...after the death of their son
"garrett." "what we prove together is this new this morning... two of oregon senators are being
recognized for joining forces to fight for better mental health care. last night former oregon
republican senator-- "gordon smith"-- and democrat-- "ron wyden"-- were celebrated at an
awards dinner-- presented by the "national alliance on mental illness." the two senators served
together in the senate for 12-years. smith"-- presented "wyden"-- with the "gordon and sharon
smith new freedom award." it was first presented to the smiths eleven years ago... for their
efforts to prevent suicide...after the death of their son "garrett." "what we prove together is
this issue isn't republican or democrat... it's about helping people. it registers as human.
senator wyden promised to work for mental health care.. and said-- he's working on bipartisan
legislation in the senate to bring better mental health services to rural oregon-- and to our
veterans. he hopes to have a bill ready at the end of the year.
KLSR (FOX)
Oct 2 • 7:42 AM

B_OCT_OREG_11

for $7.5 million you can own a real piece of rock 'n roll history. kurt cobain's former seattle
home is up for sale. cobain and courtney love bought the house back in january 1994 and the
couple lived there until the nevada that meant killed himself in the green house on the property
on april 5 of that same year. love had the greenhouse torn down but stayed in the house until
1997. it sold for almost $3 million at that time.
News Radio KEX
Oct 2 • 1:04 PM

B_OCT_OREG_12

a memorial service was held yesterday for the Cowlitz County battalion chief who died by
suicide Mike Seinfeld was remembered as a passionate man flight was passionate about is the
one who's passionate about public service and I was passionate about sports and it wasn't
necessarily in that order depending on the seahawks scheduled involve died last month after
battling a job-related injury and stress he was diagnosed with PTSD and placed on leave last
spring's and thought was a firefighter for 25 years leaves behind his wife Kelly and their two
sons.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 2 • 10:00 AM

B_OCT_OREG_13

responders from around the region gathered in Longview Washington to remember fire chief
but those seinfeld had been with the Cowlitz County Italian Department for over 20 years
before he took his own life last month's suicide has been attributed to job-related
posttraumatic stress the local fire and rescue chief Dave Le fave says that the industry needs to
talk more openly about struggle with mental health this is an issue we need to discuss and we
5

need to do it transparently and we need to do with this much effort As we do these
ceremonious so that we don't do them again in a statement saying on families chemical was
loved by many and respected by all the quote this tragedy is not defined nickel commitment to
his family appears and community instead we ask for this tragedy to redefine mental health.
KONG-SEA
Oct 2 • 7:17 PM

B_OCT_WASH_3

Deborah: a surprising new next inside edition. study from the cdc. veterinarians, the people
who keep our pets healthy are committing suicide at a rate that is two to three times higher
than that of the general population. steven fabian has a look at why and what is being done to
prevent it. >> they are the people you count on when your pet is sick but there is an alarming
number of veterinarians committing suicide. >> we are supposed to be strong. we are the ones
in the white coats. we are the ones fixing things, not the ones who should need fixing. >> one
reason is too many vets are cyberbullied. >> were you receiving threats? >> more like we are
going to find you, not stalk you but make sure nobody comes to your hospital again. we're
going to write bad reviews, tell everyone how bad of a doctor you are. >> they say social media
posts like this unfairly target vets for billing people after their pet has died. >> five months of
suffering that was completely unnecessary on top of the costs of all of the visits. >> these two
vets say afrantic work schedule adds to the intense pressure. >> i can remember calling her at
lunchtime and she would tell me, i'm taking a nap in my car. >> julie butner says that her sister
jesse works 10 hour days as a veterinarian in texas and was anguished whenever she had to put
an animal down. last year, jesse took her own life. >> how difficult is that for you to have to put
someone's pet down. >> there is nevet out there who can do that without taking some of that
pain on themselves. >> we get together and talk about things because sometimes only another
veterinarian understands. >> deborah: if you or someone you know is contempilating suicide,
call the national suicide prevention line at 1-800-273-talk. we'll be right back right after this.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 2 • 6:42 PM

B_OCT_OREG_14

deb: organizers of the out of the darkness suicide prevention walking a expect 4,000 people to
show up this weekend. it's an annual event to raise money for the cause. coming up tomorrow
in our weekly "kind is better" segment, we have an exclusive interview with an organizer of the
event. who got very involved for personal reasons. we'll have that tomorrow on katu news at
6:00. the walk will be held saturday, october 5th beginning at 8:30 a.m. at the veteran’s
memorial coliseum. to register for the walk or donate go to katu.com.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 2 • 4:45 PM

B_OCT_OREG_15

the majority of U.S. gun deaths are suicides but a new national poll finds that most americans
don't know that the poll found 58% of Americans think some form of homicide is responsible
for most gun deaths but the reality is that almost two-thirds of all gun deaths are actualy
6

suicide the poll found the misconception to be consistent across rural and urban areas although
there was some regional fluctuation
KOPB-FM (Radio)
B_OCT_OREG_16
Oct 2 • 9:19 PM
she told me the really interesting statistic she found she did guns for survey back in 2015
people who have older children who have guns stories their guns the same way as people who
don't have any kids at all Jay tweeted I'm a gun owner I use a gun locker one not transporting
illegally carrying I don't agree with unenforceable laws however gun owners showing this level
of negligence should be legally held accountable in cases of murder Jennifer rights I am a
suicide survivor who therefore has no right to gun access the ruling our home is that all the
guns must have trigger locks and he's hitting the handguns are in a safe I do not have the code
did you know I let you go in a second but I think there's two parts to this that we need to pull
apart one is jennifer saying she has no rights to gun access I don't think I think she means that
figuratively not literally legally right Yeah I mean you know we talked about this with a person
who I interviewed for this story when Dixon who is talking about is on mental health and the
fact that he is very aware of his mental state when he has his bounds on him and how that's
very very important for him to have a community that can hold him accountable and that he
can rely on on and I think that it's something that is definitely changing the gun community and
people are starting to talk about mental health and talking about depression and and suicide
which makes up for two thirds of gun that's a really big thing and access has a lot to do with
that we know statistically that if a gun is accessible on the risk of suicide becomes more and it's
not because guns making suicidal it's because a gun is there and if you're feeling really upset a
gun is is there and it's easily accessible so this is something that people are definitely thinking
about but there's still some movement that I think needs to be made within the gun community
in the larger than communities Holder talk about suicide and how big of an issue it's and one
last question Adam tweeted has there been any look into how gun storage laws may place an
extra burden on low income families I live in northern michigan where guns are still used as a
means of putting food on the table someone making less than the poverty level cannot afford a
biometric safe I dt that is a really good point and you know the fact of the matter is these I
metrics saves and gun store you know these big States are pretty expensive not everyone can
afford them and not pleased at people lock it is a really good alternative you can usually get
them for free at your local police station the NSSF National shooting Sports foundation offers
them your project child safe and you know something is better than nothing and you know
putting those stops in place for looking at it from a suicide perspective putting those stops in
place to where someone has to do something and take a step and think about what they're
doing is better than no step at all and give you an That free gunlock program one more time for
sure it's called project child safe and it's through that season the National shooting Sports
foundation NSSF debunk the mood he is reporter with guns and America you can find more the
projects reporting and share your stories about the role of firearms in your life online at guns
and America got bored I dd thanks for talking to us thank you so much.
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 3 • 11:00 AM

B_OCT_OREG_17

7

police responded to reports yesterday morning around 3 a-m, that stahl-wellborn may be
suicidal and in possession of a handgun. he was taken into custody after struggling with police
in the springfield walmart parking lot on olympic street. during the struggle police say he
rammed patrol cars that they set up to prevent him from driving away. the suspect also hit k-9
gryff several times in the head, after the k-9 attempted to take him down. after police finally
subdued him, they found a loaded gun. the suspect also had a digital scale along with multiple
packages of heroin and meth. he faces several charges, including reckless endagering and
possession of heroin and meth.
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 3 • 4:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_18

a person of interest has been identified a 19-year-old man accused of ramming into two police
cars in springfield was in court for the first time this afternoon. police say he admitted he was
trying to get police to kill him. police got reports that olallie stahl- wellborn was in the walmart
parking lot in springfield yesterday morning... and he had a handgun.. and may be suicidal.
police say he wouldn't get out of his car, so they boxed him in, so he couldn't leave. they say
stahl- wellborn then rammed into the patrol car in front of him.. and the one behind him. police
say when k-9 gryff went through a broken window to take him into custody -- stahl-wellborn hit
the dog several times in the head. police say after they finally subdued him, they found a
loaded gun, a digital scale and multiple packages of heroin and meth.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 3 • 6:42 PM

B_OCT_OREG_19

it's very healing and very hopeful but very emotional at the same time. >> it's been a dozen
years since this mom lost her daughter to suicide. this weekend she will join thousands and
walk in her honor. the american foundation for suicide prevention portland out of the darkness
walk is saturday. katu's genevieve reaume shows how taking those first few steps helped guide
that family through their grief. >> danielle's favorite holiday was halloween. >> october was a
special time for danielle gentzler. she loved to celebrate on the last day of the month. but next
to the decor -- >> we lost her in october. >> a reminder on the first day of october 12 years ago.
>> it was unexpected in many ways. >> danielle took her life in 2007. just days after her family
learned about the american foundation for suicide prevention and out of the darkness walk. it
was too soon in their grief to go but the next year they joined. >> it's all about the experience of
the people that attend. >> and walk every year following. their advocacy inspired others to start
talking about the tough subject. >> people that we had known for years started reaching out to
us. >> they could educate them about mental illness and navigate through the pain. she is
saving others including her brother jamie. >> i think that -- if we had not gone through what we
went through with her and learned from that that we may have lost him. >> jamie too battled
depression and suicidal ideation. he agrees her struggles and his family's transparency is
continuing give others hope. >> being exposed to suicide like that at such a young age, i was

8

ten, i believe, when it happened, i don't know, it just gets you used to knowing that there's a lot
of support out there. >> and that you're certainly not alone. genevieve reaume, katu news.
KFXO (FOX)
B_OCT_OREG_20
Oct 3 • 8:20 AM
an attempted suicide survivor is speaking out about mental health. he shot himself in the face
nearly 15 years ago... and in 20-17 -- he was the mayo clinic's first facial transplant. jennifer
austin has his story. ### at the mayo clinic's transform conference andy sandness spoke about
the surgery which transformed him. "when i first saw it, i'll never forget, just looking in that
mirror - just wow. that's all i could say, was 'wow.'" andy is the mayo clinic's first face transplant
patient. the surgery - in 2017 --- took 56 hours...roughly 40 surgeons and nurses...and
completely changed andy's physical appearance. but speaking to a crowd at the mayo civic
center...he didn't just talk about the physical. "you know you feel you hit rock bottom at that
time." andy needed that face transplant because in 2006...at 21 years old and battling
depression...he shot himself in the face. "i built up a wall and i wouldn't let nobody in. and
finally it just got to the point where it just exploded and there was no controlling it." he took
the stage...with his psychiatrist and surgeon...talk about the surgery which gave him a new
future...and the mental health problems he says led up to it. "if you are feeling these thoughts
and feeling you just need to get it out there and you need to talk to someone." using his new
future...to help save someone else's. "if i could just help one person to just reach out to
somebody and that's it. that's all i ask." ### and that was jennifer austin reporting. if you or
someone you know is having suicidal thoughts...please visit ktvz dot com under the community
tab and click "let's talk" for a number of local resources.
KVAL (CBS)
Oct 3 • 9:53 AM

B_OCT_OREG_21

a eugene man who was reported as missing, armed and possibly suicidal is in quite a bit of
trouble now... and facing multiple charges. police say when they tried to arrest olallie
stahlwellborn, he rammed two different springfield patrol vehicles. s-p-d says they found
heroin, meth, and a loaded gun on him when they took him into custody.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 3 • 6:15 AM

B_OCT_OREG_22

about 4,000 people are expected to show up for the out of the darkness suicide prevention
walk. >> the annual event raises awareness and funds for the american foundation for suicide
prevention. the foundation invested in research, creates educational programs, advocates for
public policy and supports survivors of suicide loss. robin ganzler lost her daughter to suicide in
2007. she and her family have participated ever since. >> . >> it's our way of honoring her and
allowing her to help other people. >> hear more from her family tonight in our kind is better
report during k-2 news at six this evening. the walk is saturday morning outside veteran's
memorial coliseum. registration is at 8:30, the walk is t a ten.

9

KREM (CBS)
Oct 3 • 5:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_4

the spokane task force that was trying to reduce suicide calls on the monroe street bridge is no
more. it disbanded last spring. grim news amanda nd out what happened to their plans to add
safety barricades to the bridge amanda in january last year. spokane human rights commission
created the suicide prevention task force. the group focused its efforts on reducing the number
of suicide calls from the monroe street bridge. that task is now in the hands of a different
group. the monroe street bridge is the location of about 20 suicide calls each year. that's
according to spokane police spokane suicide prevention task force set out to stop that number
from growing major studies have shown installing barriers on bridges reduces the number of
suicide attempts. so the task force looked into adding telephones directly connecting to a
suicide hotline netting or artistic barriers to them in rose street bridge. but these ideas never
came to fruition the task force was closed down before the city council even received a final
report with its recommendations. now these efforts are in the hands of the prevent suicide
spokane coalition. it's partnered with the spokane regional health district coalition chairs
sabrina. tavis says the bridge is a small part of a bigger picture because if somebody does fall
through the cracks of that prevention effort and they do get to the point where they're in
immediate risk that also we have to keep them here in order to do that prevention she says the
coalition wants to approach suicide prevention a bit differently than the task force did. i just
would hope that the community knows that the intention of this group is not to take away from
any of those things it's to enhance the enjoyment of the bridge for everyone because there are
a lot of people who have been negatively impacted and taking on this topic can be no easy task.
went to vote tarver tells me she's glad to hear that the community is still invested in this topic
enough to keep that conversation going.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Oct 3 • 6:09 PM

B_OCT_WASH_5

mental health can affect anyone. the group often overlooked is first responders. just last month
the battalion chief, mike is in filled died from suicide. his family is working to make sure other
families do not suffer the same loss. >> the first words that kelly said to me was do not let this
happen again. >> if any silver lining can shine, it is this. >> we need to discuss this transparently.
>> mike zanesfield's passing left a hole in this community. >> mike was a friend that would give
you the shirt off of his back. he was fun, laughing, jovial person. >> reporter: his friends want
his death by suicide to help break the stigma. one firefighter said this can stop people from
seeking help. >> there is still the old school stigma of we are going to be tough guys and we can
get through this and that is just not the case when you have to see the things that we see on a
daily basis and the volume you see it in, it takes a toll. >> reporter: mental health issues and
trauma are rampant among america's first sponders. they see death and destruction constantly.
after tackling their own challenges, these firefighters are trying to get others to talk to each
other about their struggles. >> let people know that it is okay to not be okay. >> reporter: he
10

made the sweatshirts as part of an awareness campaign. >> i'm trying to help my peers that are
hurting as well to try to help navigate and get the help that they need. >> reporter: after tran
40s passing, it is even more pressing. >> we have to move forward and get into a place where
we are comfortable having those conversations. >> they want their peers to know that there is
help out there although navigating the system can be grueling. >> finding resources was
difficult. >> reporter: they feel the need to be more resources for first responders. >> moving
forward, we need to try to identify better resources and management for issues. it is an
environment that advocates for people coming forward and speaking about their issues and
asking for help.
KREM (CBS)
Oct 3 • 6:32 PM

B_OCT_WASH_6

the spokane task force that was trying to reduce suicide calls on the monroe street bridge is no
more. it disbanded last spring grab amanda rowley found out what happened to their plans
then to add safety barriers rather to the bridge in january last year spokane human rights
commission created the suicide prevention task force. the group focused its efforts on reducing
the number of suicide calls from the monroe street bridge. that task is now in the hands of a
different group monroe street bridge is the location of about 20 suicide calls each year. that's
according to spokane police spokane suicide prevention task force set out to stop that number
from growing major studies have shown installing barriers on bridges reduces the number of
suicide attempts. so the task force looked into adding telephones directly connecting to a
suicide hotline netting or artistic barriers to the monroe street bridge. but these ideas never
came to fruition. the task force was closed down before the city council even received a final
report with its recommendations now these efforts are in the hands of the prevent suicide
spokane coalition. it's partnered with the spokane regional health district coalition chair
sabrina. tavis says the bridge is a small part of a bigger picture. because if somebody does fall
through the cracks of that prevention effort and they do get to the point where they're in
immediate risk that is also we have to keep them here in order to do that prevention. she says
the coalition wants to approach suicide prevention a bit differently than the task force did. i just
would hope that the community knows that the attention of this group is not to take away from
any of those things it's a two enhance the enjoyment of the bridge for everyone because there
are a lot of people who have been negatively impacted. taking this topic on can be no easy task
but montalvo tells me she's glad to hear the community still cares enough about suicide
prevention to keep the conversation going.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 4 • 4:06 PM

B_OCT_OREG_23

the trail Christian fellowship church in eagle point, is now facing a new lawsuit from a woman..
who says she was sexually abused as a child. the lawsuit says that the abuse began in 2008..
when she was 14 and attended the church's youth group. 23-year-old jacob durrett is the man
that was accused of abusing her, according to that lawsuit. durrett was also involved in the
youth group at the time. the suit states that durrett was sexually abusing girls he met in the
11

group. durrett was arrested in 20-15 and charged with four felony sex abuse charges. the case
was later dismissed after he committed suicide before the trial. the lawsuit is claiming that the
church received multiple reports from an underage girl about the abuse.. but no one
intervened. the suit is asking for 4 million judgment in favor of the plaintiff ... and is demanding
a jury trial.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 4 • 5:17 PM

B_OCT_OREG_24

the first time in more than a decade oregon senator ron wyden and former republican senator
gordon smith sat down for a tv interview and joined me for this week's straight talk to talk
about mental health in america and what congress can do to improve mental healthcare
policies. wyden and smith represented oregon together from 1996 to 2008. they say they're
bonded by mental health challenges in their own families. smith with a suicide of his son garrett
and wyden whose younger brother battles schizophrenia. they also reflected on their bipartisan
relationship and what today's congress can do to work together, too. >> ron and i laid down our
swords and said, you know, when it comes to oregon's interests, we can do a lot together. >>
you had town halls together. >> and we met for lunch once a week to figure out where we were
on our agenda and getting done what we had learned in statewide town halls. it was very
productive and enjoyable. >> he was the great israeli diplomat who said the americans always
get it right and he paused and he said after they've tried everything else. maybe we're in the
everything else department, but gordon and i had some ways to show people how to get
beyond the fighting. >> this week senator smith presented senator wyden with an award for his
advocacy on mental health issues. you can see the entire interview on straight talk tomorrow at
4:30 on kgw or read the story now on www.kgw.com. it's also available on podcast. just search
kgw straight talk.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 4 • 5:08 PM

B_OCT_OREG_25

steve: also to the family of a firefighter who died by suicide will collect insurance benefits from
his death. cowlitz county battalion chief died september 20th, was laid to rest this past
monday. washington state law recognizes ptsd as an occupational disease for firefighters,
medics, and law enforcement. his death was ruled in the line of duty. his family is expected to
receive insurance, health care, and educational benefits because of that law. >>> organizers
expect 4,000 people at tomorrow's out of the darkness suicide prevention walk. our "kind is
better" partner 95.5 will also be there to raise money for the american foundation for suicide
prevention. it's not too late to donate or take part. you can get all the information you need at
katu.com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 4 • 6:17 PM

B_OCT_OREG_26

12

organizers expect 4,000 people to show up for the out of the darkness walk tomorrow morning.
sponsored by the american foundation for suicide prevention, for many people it's a deeply
personal event. rosenstein begin is an organizer of the event and motivated by the tragic loss of
her daughter danielle. a dozen years ago. they've used the walk not only to honor danielle's
memory, but to educate as many people as they can about how preventible suicide is. >>
there's a lot of people who are out there who are struggling, feel alone. sorry. and for us, it's -it's an opportunity to help other people. >> deb: the walk will be held tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. at
vetera coliseum. you can expect to see our partner in "kind is better" 95.5 there. one of the
radio hosts and a member of the "kind is better" youth advisory board is walking, raising
metropolitan for afsp right now. to register for the walk, or to donate go to our website,
katu.com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 5 • 8:45 AM

B_OCT_OREG_27

it's very healing and very hopeful that very emotional at the same time. >>it's been over a
decade since this mom lost her daughter to suicide. but today she's honoring her by joining
thousands of others at the out of the darkness. walk catches genevieve very own. shows us how
taking those 1st few steps helped guide that family through their grief and also. >>holiday was
definitely hollowing. >>october was a special time for danielle gansler she loved to celebrate
the holiday on the last day of the month. but next to the decor. >>we lost her in october. >>a
reminder she so desperately needed on the 1st day of october 12 years ago. >>he was kind of
unexpected in many ways. >>danielle took her life in 2007 just days after her family learned
about the american foundation for suicide prevention and the out of the darkness walk it was
too soon in their grief to go but the next year they join. >>it's really all about the experiences of
the people that attend and walk every year following their advocacy inspired others to start
talking about the tough subject >>people that we had known for years are now reaching out to
us they could educate them about mental illness and navigate their own route through the pain
you are not alone >>doing her legacy is that she saving others including her brother jaime i
think that if. >>we hadn't gone through what we went through with her and learned from that
that we may have lost him >>jamie to battles depression and suicidal ideation. >>i kind of know
what it's like to be in her place. >>he agrees her struggle and his family's transparency is
continuing to give others hope being. >>exposed tocide like that at such a young age because i
was 10 i believe it happened um i don't know i just kind of getting used to knowing that there's
a lot of support out there >>and that you're certainly not alone. genevieve ray own key to
news. >>when the guns lehrer's 1st started doing the walk a few 100 joined them but today 3 to
4000 are expected to walk it is happening right now at the veterans memorial coliseum you can
expect to see our kind is better partners. 955 to donate go to our website k. a. 2 u.com
Fox 12 Plus
Oct 5 • 8:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_28

walking to bring suicide out of the darkness -- thousands of people came together in portland
today with messages of hope and healing. familes touched by suicide took part in the "out of
13

the darkness walk" at the veterans memorial coliseum. funds raised will help the "american
foundation for suicide prevention" achieve its mission to raise awareness about suicide
prevention. many there wore t-shirts with names of loved ones... others carried messages of
hope. audrey king says, she lost her 15-year-old son to suicide in 20-11. she's walked every year
since his death. i see people that i recognize from over the years and you connect with them
and just being here to support one another. everybody's going through a different process and
and it just takes time. today's walk raised more than 220 thousand dollars. that surpasses the
215-thousand-dollar goal. fox 12's "better together" initiative focuses on ways our community
promotes mental wellness. if you, or someone you know, needs help -- there are people out
there, ready to listen. for more information about this story and to find out about more
resources -- head to our website at kptv dot-com slash "better together."
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 5 • 5:36 PM

B_OCT_OREG_29

today is the out of the darkness walk. more than 3000 people gathered at veteran’s memorial
coliseum and walked down to the Hawthorne bridge and back put on by the American
foundation for suicide prevention. the event raises awareness and money to invest in research,
education and support for those who have lost loved ones to suicide. >> if we come along we
can do this prevention together and there is hope. >> today's Portland event raised more than
$220,000. it is estimated that more than 250,000 people will take part in out of the darkness
walks we want to make sure you have the number here.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 7, 2019 • 1:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_7

we talked to a group called parents television Council that had some real concerns about a
Netflix TV series called 13 reasons why it's about teenagers and it's about suicide and what they
pointed out was at the National Institutes of health the done a study in which they pointed out
that is soon as the Serb shortly after this series began running on television there was a spike in
teenage suicide so this series appeared to be changing the landscape in enough in a negative
way in the same way that for instance the series on I think it's a teen mom was a series when it
began running within a year or two teenage pregnancy went down because a lot of teenagers
watch the show a lot of them said it's not all it's cracked up to be to be a teenage mom and
again it is true that media had Does have a tendency to change people's attitudes about things
so with all that background knowing 13 reasons why appears to be a series on television on
Netflix and parent should be controlling with their kids see what you can't control as much is
what is pushed on your kids in public schools and for instance this e-mail but I got on the parent
of a child at a middle school my daughter is 11 in the 6th grade I'm emailing because she came
home with an assignment to read 13 reasons why in writing class well I decided we should talk
to Chelsea about his legal last name off Chelsea welcome to the program I think he you're the
mother of this 11 year-old daughter and she comes home and she says I've been assigned to
read this book I ask you does the book track along and served in the same way a pretty directly
with the television series that has been some controversy and what did it tell me it absolutely
14

does I personally have not fully read the book yet I have been skimming it and it absolutely
follows the TV experience now do you think of that book is appropriate reading as a school
assignment for your 11 year-old daughter absolutely not if what senator Yeah what kind of but
thank God it state suicide rate been met with slut shaming I'm creepy kid working in windows
being keeping calm and also have a chapter dedicated to a teenage boy being raped by 3 other
teenage boys and that and all of this is a sign reading for your 11 year-old daughter Yes and it
has been a righting off not in the hope the clock if not in humanity off and I was not notified
about getting weird but perfect and I'm I guess jumping ahead a little bed a teacher who's
interested in teaching kids about writing could choose from literally thousands of different
books better age appropriate and that might spur a young boy or girl to explore different ways
of riding without having to push a grape and drug use and suicide on 11 0 exactly so have you
gone to school authorities Conestoga middle school and said to them I'm unconcerned about
what you're pushing my daughter I have not yet I was going to do that today I want and you
can't other parents opinions first and see what other parents had felt I hope someone to
contact the news source for me yet to get back out there that our schools are pushing bent on
two children.
KFXO (FOX)
Oct 7, 2019 • 8:20 AM

B_OCT_OREG_30

many teens who attempt suicide use over the counter medications. that's according to a new
study from nationwide children's hospital. this is pretty alarming...it shows there have been
over 1-point-six million cases of intentional self-poisoning among youth and young adults over
the past two decades. the most commonly used medications were over-the-counter painkillers
like ibuprofen...followed by anti-depressants. experts urge parents to safely store any kind of
medicine when kids and teens live in the home.
KLSR (FOX)
Oct 7, 2019 • 7:09 PM

B_OCT_OREG_31

great story. up next on Oregon’s news at seven, research into the relationship between oxygen
and human cells as parents three scientist in health news... over-the-counter pain medication
>>> and health news over-the- counter pain middle patients are used in suicide attempts and
young Monday pope Courtney from nationwide children's hospital. antidepressants were the
second most commonly used drugs to self-poison among 2 to 24-year-old’s. in younger children
between 10 and 15 years of adhd medications were common and had the highest risk of
serious medical outcomes.
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 7, 2019 • 8:47 AM

B_OCT_OREG_32

Hillsborough schools are screening a growing number of students for suicide the former
Tribune says the District recorded 101 suicide screenings in 2013 2014 school year 4 years later
they have 352 students who might be thinking of killing themselves based on input from staff
15

are subject to screenings the first question screeners ask is you thinking of killing yourself next
is you have any means to carry out the plan research shows these questions are the most
effective way to intervene if the person is thinking of killing themselves
B_OCT_OREG_33
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 8, 2019 • 5:00 PM
the results of a survey by the University of Oregon journalism student show half of the state's
largest school districts don't have a plan for how to teach suicide Prevention Elizabeth Miller
reports University of Oregon's catalyst journalism project put together the survey which asked
40 gordon square district how they teach suicide Prevention in the classroom according to
catalyst the results varied some districts these pages from textbooks and others have students
create suicide Prevention messages to place around school a new law requires all school
districts have suicide Prevention plans in place by the start of the school year.
AM 860
Oct 8, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_OCT_OREG_34

a failing grade forward schools on suicide Prevention deep Portland Tribune reports a recent
survey found that districts using only a patch toward method of curriculum to teach suicide
Prevention the U-boat journalism project survey found that about half of the school District's
lack of evidence-based plans to deal with the growing health problem.
KHQ (NBC)
Oct 8, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_8

right now, the spokane county sheriff's office is investigating the death of two elderly people at
a home east of chattaroy. deputies responded to the home on north scotts ridge lane.. right
between chattaroy and mount spokane state park. the initial call was reported as a welfare
check for a possible suicide.. but when they arrived deputies found two adults inside the home
and medics confirmed both were deceased. major crimes detectives are investigating these
deaths, but right now the sheriff's office says they do not believe there is a threat to the public
at this time.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 9, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_35

medford officers cleared-vo medford police officers won't face any charges for their
involvement in a shooting last month. a grand jury cleared them of charges. steven myers was
shot by a medford police officer on september 22. police responded to a call for a possibly
suicidal man. looking in through the window, one officer saw a trail of blood in the house.
officers tried calling to myers to get him to come out. they got no response but thought they
could hear someone in the house. officers entered the house. police say myers wouldn't drop
his knife as he made his way to the front door. one officer shot his gun. two others fired their
tasers. myers was taken to the hospital. he was treated for the gunshot wound to his stomach
16

as well as self-inflicted cuts to his wrists and neck. he also had stab wounds to his stomach. the
grand jury determined the officer's use of force in this case was justified. myers is still facing
charges.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
B_OCT_OREG_36
Oct 9, 2019 • 4:05 PM
most of the $30 million lawsuit filed by a wounded oregon state police trooper has been
dismissed. nic cederberg and his wife sued washington county's 911 center saying he wasn't
warned the man who shot him 12 times had just killed his wife and was suicidal. the federal
judge concluded dispatchers did not intentionally withhold information before the shooting on
christmas day 2016. the judge also dismissed the part of the lawsuit that accused a sheriff's
deputy of failing to arrest james tylka about a month earlier for domestic violence. cederberg is
still suing legacy meridian hospital for not putting a mental health hold on tylka when he tried
to kill himself after the domestic violence.
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 9, 2019 • 5:10 PM

B_OCT_OREG_37

there's a new documentary out about the alarming rise in teen anxiety, depression and suicide.
in tonight's project safe family: it's called "screenagers: the next chapter". delaney ruston came
out with the screenagers... three years ago... when she was trying to decide whether to give her
daughter, tessa, an iphone. ruston thought she had things in order... until tessa started to
struggle with depression. she says a major takeaway from her research... a lot of kids feel like
they can't talk to anyone, even their parents. ruston says there are solutions. i often just use
the phrase that sounds really hard and it works wonders, and i can see the aggravation and the
sadness come out of her.// stitch some of the things my parents said that really helped in the
moments of hardship were a, you're doing the best you can for where you're at and what tools
you have. my mom especially reiterated that// i wouldn't be feeling this way if i had the choice.
ruston says when it comes to kids and screen time... agree on the rules. she says to look at
things like mealtimes. privacy, time management... appropriate posts, online bullying and
kindness.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Oct 9, 2019 • 10:47 AM

B_OCT_OREG_38

tomorrow is world mental health day and a local event is helping end the stigma surrounding
mental health and mental illness. joining me now is dr. james polo from cambia health
solutions. thank you for coming in today. >> my pleasure. >> stephanie: let's talk about the
importance of having a world mental health day. >> mental health is one of those things that
really creates a lot of stigma. world mental health day is about drawing attention and
awareness to mental health and the importance of the fact that people suffer from problems
and helping promote the idea treatment is a good thing and we don't have to be afraid of
mental health. >> stephanie: cambia health is holding an event tomorrow called stop the
stigma. what can people expect at this event? >> we're bringing in a couple, laura and todd
17

crooks and we're going to screen their documentary "chad's legacy" which is the story of their
son's journey through his mental health t. and afterwards we're going to host a panel and have
a discussion about stigma and mental health and people can expect to get involved in that. >>
stephanie: what does this documentary include? does it walk through his life? why did you
want to make a documentary part of this event. >> the documentary shows how difficult it is
when folks do have mental health problems and how families can sometimes struggle getting
help. and it shows the tragic side that sometimes cases lead to a bad outcome. this year's
theme for world mental health day is suicide prevention so we're talking a little bit about where
suicide plays its role in mental health. >> stephanie: cambia is located in portland. how do most
of our viewers know you? >> cambia health solutions is a company focused on transforming
health care so we can make it person centered and decrease the costs to make it affordable for
everybody. your viewers knows it as regionance, blue cross in oregon, the largest in the state.
our focus includes mental health. >> stephanie: we're all so busy in our day-to-day lives. what
are things to do when we're looking ahead to world mental health day that really can keep us in
the best and healthiest state of mind? >> that's a great question. we are surrounded by stress
all the time. we're in constat motion. one of the best things we can do is balance things and one
of the things that makes people happy is being connected to others. doing things that they
enjoy but doing it with people that they enjoy being around and just kind of being together and
taking time away from work and taking time away from the things that cause stress. >>
stephanie: i think one of the things that maybe if you are dealing with depression or you said i
think something interesting is reaching out to others and being around other people because
maybe it can be easier to retreat especially when you're feeling down so talk more about why
you want to maybe talk to somebody else or if you are having some sort of mental health
issues, open that conversation up. >> when struggle with emotional things we generally actually
need to talk about it and we tend to want to talk about it but we want to talk about with people
that aren't going to judge us, people that know us, people that will still kind of accept us for
who we are. and so it's important to be surrounded by people that are not going to judge you.
and so being connected to folks that are friends and family can be very helpful particularly
when you're struggling with something that's emotionally difficult. >> stephanie: that was
great. thank you so much, dr. polo, for being here. >> my pleasure
KTVL (CBS)
Oct 9, 2019 • 3:10 PM

B_OCT_OREG_39

a student from ashland high school made a shooting threat on social media and has been taken
into custody. the male student posted a picture of himself with a gun and a warning not to go
to school today on instagram. let leslie come ashland police received information about the
threat paid those investigated by officials and the gun was found to be a bb gun paid he was
taken into custody for disorderly conduct per >> if you are looking at the picture, you're staring
at the barrel of what looks like a handgun and there was text written onto the image, don't
come to school tomorrow. so i was that this is very concerning to the officers last night looked
into this immediately and they talked to the young man. they talk to his parents. >>> ashland
police say it's very important to take these kinds of threats of suicide. it's still under
investigation by the department and s in high school.
18

B_OCT_WASH_9

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 9, 2019 • 11:15 AM

you've been following the pot because a woman maybe love you get too close to his heart now
I don't know what the stock he got a lot on his mind what he told me that is better if he'd be
gone and he commit suicide because he is losing people that you write about it looked like he
try to live happy for letting that go all right so we like it better he tried to take his own life he
said this is why I couldn't get my I had cases sun lamp Daddy don't have the same unit egos
night night turn off the lines turnout in nice you don't want China Sea was going on in his life
food so he started out describing had this is a poll about his friend who was threatening to
commit suicide a contact to they care Robert Frost I know miles to go before rise sleep that's all
about suicide Down and that is what we know is about life you think that's it I think that limits
the poll but still okay fine Yeah over that as long as any I took a class a rare earths with whom I
met you ahead when I wrote my life full of Pittsburgh had on the back of the shirt I had written
on a T-shirt miles to go before we sleep you don't stop off this stupid Amish bakery and some
guy with a big long beard a professor by the way and you work for a community college should
you know the reference since Robert Frost Pope and and and the though horse must think it's
clear that stop something some new year and Yes he did it error could the farmhouse in snow
units miles to go before the pieces Robert Frost was talking about a bit you okay fine Art loved
and I think what has miles to go before Rice sleep sleep is a metaphor for dad then you could
argue it's about life before the death because of miles ago he's not giving up so it's an ante
suicidal.
KBNZ
Oct 9, 2019 • 8:13 AM

B_OCT_OREG_40

every day many americans wake up worrying about the mental health of a family member or
loved one. an estimated 47.6 million adults in the u.s. experienced mental illness last year.
that's oneve in fis adultin this country. this morning, we're announcing an upcoming special
show to dr adisess th urgent issue. >> "cbs this morning" will broadcast a live town hall "stop
the stigma," a conversation about mental health on october 23rd. it will feature a live studio
audience of people affected by mental illness in various ways and hear from medical
professionals. "queer eye" star karamo brown, my apology, will discuss his experience with
depression. we'll speak to lady gaga's mother, cynthia, about how mental illness has affected a
family. many more names will be announced soon. our goal is to launch a national conversation
to help break down stigma surrounding mental health. dr. sue varma is among the experts who
will participate in the town hall. she's a fellow of the american psychiatric association. one of
the many organizations we are consulting with for the special show. she joins us now. thank
you for being here. >> thank you for having me. >> stigma and mental health. these con seft -concepts are intertwined and shouldn't be in this country. what is the impacts of stigma on -the impact of stigma on people's ability to get what they need. >> it is detrimental. stigma is
19

about lack of education, back of awareness, and times even when people have both it comes
down to a lack of compassion and empathy. we have an anything, but how will it translate into
action? that's what we need. we need action. we need people on every level to understand not
getting the help we need only makes the problem worse. when we have stigma, we are
creating shame and blame. when we blame somebody for having type-one diabetes, we would
not. would we blame someone for having the flu or broken arm, this is no difference. >> you
say blame and shame get you nowhere, but it exists. why do you think after all this time and so
many well-known people have come out talking about it, people have members of their family
that suffer from mental illness. it's still there, why? >> we don't think of the brain as an organ.
when we see behavior we think they have a capacity to change. the reality is a lot of times
people are not aware of the symptoms. we need to know what the symptoms. somebody says
just snap out of it. if you had a 103-degree fever and were suffering from the flu, fehow
efifctive your family said snap out of it? >> what are some of the most significant stigmas? >>
we think that somebody can change if they're drinking, if they're abusing substances, we think
it's a moral failure, that they didn't try hard enough. one thing that's interesting is when people
die by suicide, if we want to think of it as somebody dying by cancer, how would it change? the
person didn't want to live. any time you have a mental illness or have suicide it affects not only
a family, a society, a community of people who are left behind feeling like failures, people who
are experiencing it feel like failures. >> talking about the way we are helps break down the
stigma. what else can we do? the science is clear. the health ramifications are clear. how do we
break through to change this -- this system? >> i think it's so important that people who are
celebrated in our community, who are seen as very strong, if they're able to come out and
share their struggles as we have seen, we see that this can be a part of a normal person's life. if
we're talking about one in five people, we look around the room right here, all of us are
struggling wmeith soatthing some point in our lives. so normalizing it and people who -- we put
on pedestals, who are our heroes, they need to come out. n we beed toene op when they're
struggling with something. we need to shed a positive light. if you're going to share the best
restaurant that you've been too, why can't you tell them the best therapist you've been to? talk
about the positive experiences of getting help. focus on that aspect. >> struggling with things
like what? you hear mental illness, and that's a big brush. >> yes. >> mental illness, struthling
with what -- struggling with what? >> if you're dealing with major depressive disorder.
somebody saying i have difficulty getting motivated, i don't want to get out of bed. i lost
pleasure in things i once had, i'm gaining weight, i can't concentrate, i'm anxious, having
difficulty making decisions. or somebody saying i have fluctuations in my mood. bipolar
disorder, sometimes i feel elated, there are episodes when i can get work done, i feelgr
e,andiosl i fee i can buy things in different colors. >> isn't it true that sometimes people don't
recognize they're even -- this is a problem. >> no. yes, we have -- they think what the difference
is between going back to a baseline if you're going out of depression and into manic episode. >>
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 9, 2019 • 6:02 PM

B_OCT_OREG_41

most of a $30 million lawsuit filed by a wounded Oregon state police trooper has been
dismissed. nic cederberg and his wife sued Washington county's 911 center saying he wasn't
20

warned the man, who shot him 12 times had just killed his wife and was suicidal. but a federal
judge concluded dispatchers did not intentionally withhold information before the shooting, on
Christmas day 2016. the judge also dismissed a part of the lawsuit that accused a sheriff's
deputy of failing to arrest james tylka about a month earlier for domestic violence. , however,
cederberg is still suing legacy meridian hospital for not putting a mental health, hold on tylka
when he tried to kill himself after the domestic violence.
KMVU (FOX)
Oct 8, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_42

in another story we are following, massachusetts murder suicide, joseph zaccardi, the struggling
children's book author along with his wife and three children were tragically discovered dead
from gunshot wounds inside their home when a relative arrived to take the kids to school. chris
spargo in the new york newsroom, what you have for us? >> a heartbreaking and
incomprehensible story out of massachusetts. police are still trying to determine what
happened in the hours, days, weeks, and months before the death of the zaccardi family
members. they first found the body of deirdre, unresponsive and laying on the downstairs
couch where she was still bleeding from a gunshot wound. no information on where in the
house joseph's body was found or her three children, police are working hard to determine the
motive. the local police noting that there was no just messed domestic disturbance. and could
be an isolated incident. joseph had published a number of children's books, and he recently said
that he was unemployed and going crazy on facebook. the relatives have asked for privacy at
this time. >> jesse: the thoughts are with the family during this difficult time. chris spargo,
thank you
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 8, 2019 • 9:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_43

I'm like Moelis euros to grow 0 approaching the issue of the alleged suicide Jeffery Epstein
know that there are a lot of conspiracy theories about how the picture is going viral on the
Internet a few more words it's impossible for him to commit suicide his cell the surveillance
system continues to function when he allegedly died gosh it all and of course is dead is also an
excuse for clinton death list today around and I can go on about what I've read and seen but all
I can say is that most of what you're hearing and reading on the Internet is again there for clicks
likes and all that stuff on social media we really can't blame the Pope public for feeling a little
paranoid about the rocks at the center of government after after two mass shootings which
have put americans closer civil war jeff jeffrey have seen should be a lesson in how the public
tends to swallow whatever theory it's a political normalcy by its with the media some
everything up as one big mystery and conspiracy theories put the puzzle pieces together trying
to find out who done it all the more reason why americans want to arm themselves against
recklessly robe and sinister government as Singh's death should be seen in as a blatant
indication the deep state is fragmenting and panicking and so they want to do some reality
testing right now they have been doing this since Russia take away.

21

FM News 101 KXL
Oct 9, 2019 • 11:32 PM

B_OCT_OREG_44

phone after the news one no one financier Jeffrey real money behind Brendan for jeffy good
being with you and you meet indie movie jeffrey axes apparent suicide quickly led to a flood of
conspiracy theories online efforts to paint a different picture I have a sex offender actually died
hashtag linking powerful figures like President Trump and clinton and trended over the
weekend even the President himself reached a conspiracy media about esteem and clinton we
are now learning of serious irregularities at this facility are deeply concerning and demand for
road invested this is the best that can be studied for the next 15 20 plus years there's still no
sign of foul play and suicide is still presumed to be the leading cause of all Unsealed and alleged
victim of that Stephen a listings apparent suicide system to corrections so directed her to have
sex with several politically it comes one day after thousands of pages of a dog connected and
financially powerful men when she was talked we're my I ever publicly we could do an invited
audience we got our own investigations now underway to figure out how Jeffrey Epstein and
tools that the trafficker registered sex offenders and men of a certain tightness in the end of
the week
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 10, 2019 • 4:37 PM

B_OCT_OREG_45

Emily: today is world mental health day, a day devoted to raising awareness and reducing the
stigma surrounding mental illness. dan: in the u.s. an estimated 20% of adults experienced
mental illness last year. Hilary lane shows us some of the famous faces who are trying to get the
word out that help is available. Hilary: prince harry teamed up with music superstar ed sheeran
on Instagram to promote world mental health day. >> reach out make sure your friends,
strangers, look out for anybody who might be suffering in silence. we're all in this together. >>
thanks for watching. hilary: the prince also toured a school in nottingham, england that offers
mental health initiatives to young people. the focus of this year's world mental health day is
suicide prevention. close to 800,000 people die due to suicide every year worldwide. >> suicide
is often an impulsive action. >> doctor leslie heinberg of the cleveland clinic says people who
attempt suicide and survive often express regret almost immediately so it's important to
intervene. >> the more that we act and act repeatedly we can hopefully move them past that
impulsive moment into a safe spot. >> michael c. bryan lost his mother to suicide. he has also
tried to take his own life. >> that shame component to suicide, that shame component to
depression. that feeling, it's dreadful. >> now he helps others in crisis. >> when you're feeling
good, think about how good your life is, focus on what's good in your life because when the
dark times come they won't be as dark and they won't last as long and that's from direct
experience. >> bryan says for people who are at risk, remember there are people like him out
there who have been through it and are willing to help. hilary lane, cbs news, new york.

22

KTVL (CBS)
Oct 10, 2019 • 5:03 PM

B_OCT_OREG_46

we're learning new details about an officer involved shooting last month. a suicidal man was
armed with a knife and was shot after lunging at officers. two officers used a taser's, one absurd
did fire shot. they said that training was not relevant because myers was a nonverbal. they said
the shooting was justified according to a grand jury. myers is awaiting criminal charges in that
incident.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 10, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_47

jeff: a 19-year-old troutdale man is in federal custody right now, accused of sexually exploiting
children on instagram. police say anthony lozowski exploited about 100 children, they say he
got the kids to send him sexual pictures and videos of themselves, and then used the images as
blackmail. they say he demanded they send more pictures, and told at least one girl, who was
12-years-old, to have sex with him or he'd release her pictures. investigators say two of the kids
told him they'd commit suicide, but he kept extorting them.
KOHD (ABC)
Oct 10, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_OCT_OREG_48

today is world mental health day, a day devoted to raising awareness and reduceing the stigma
surrounding mental illness. >> this year's focus is suicide prevention. 800,000 people die of
suicide around the world every year. prince harry and ed sheeran asked those who suffer from
mental illness to reach out to friends and family.
KOBI
Oct 10, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_49

it's mental health awareness day. a day bringing attention to the millions across the united
states... affected by mental illness. this week, california has launched its first statewide mental
health resource. it's a staffed phone line... and free to use. nbc5's amanda rose joins us live in
studio to explain, amanda? craig... kristin... the warm line, as it's being called, will be staffed for
most of the day to start... but the hope is that it will eventually be a 24/7 service. siskiyou
county behavioral health services says it will provide extra support someone may need... before
it becomes critical. "i have these feelings that i'm afraid im going to harm other people or
myself." at siskiyou county behavioral health services... calls from someone experiencing a
mental health crisis doesn't look and sound the same. "i don't know what to do, my spouse or
significant other is out of control, we're not feeling safe." clinical director, tracie lema, says the
out patient facility responds to roughly 80 to 1- hundred crisis interventions every month. those
are people in need of immediate psychological care. "often that persons that truly having a
mental health episode is experiencing that internally." but lema says not every mental health
crisis needs an urgent response. "really it can run the gamet between exceptional suicidal and
23

homicidal to what we call grave disability which is i'm just so distraught, i can't take care of my
needs." lema's facility serves over 1- thousand adults and children every year... so she sees a
new statewide mental health phone line... as a huge win for california. the 'warmline' as it's
being called has people with experience with mental health issues taking the calls. "there are
millions of people in the world who have mental health conditions that may ever rise to the
level that we treat. the hope... is that this new resource can provide the extra support someone
may need... before a mental health crisis becomes critical. "they know what it feels like to sit
and wait for the crisis worker." it may even help to break the stigma behind mental illness. "and
not judge or stigmatize or maybe take a moment to understand they may be going through
something and maybe being open an listening... may save their life." according to the warm
line's website, the mental health resource has already had over 28-thousand calls and chats a
day... averaging 2-thousand per month. the phone line initially started in san francisco... and
has now expanded across the whole state. you can reach the new warm line in california by
calling 1-855-845-7415. live in studio, amanda rose, nbc5 news.
KAPP (ABC)
Oct 11, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_10

a west richland man who pleaded guilty to the murder of 53-year-old alisa brewer has been
sentenced to 20-years in prison. 25-year-old william lee was found guilty of strangling brewer to
death in december of 2018 in the fairway apartments. after killing brewer, lee called 9-1-1 and
admitted to the crime---threatening to kill himself. in court today dozens of friends and family
members of the victim held pictures of brewer---lee apologized to her loved ones during the
hearing
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 11, 2019 • 11:40 AM

B_OCT_OREG_50

suicide is a serious public health issue that has touched the lives of thousands of lane county
residents. that's why the city club of eugene is hosting a discussion about suicide prevention
today. it will describe the risk factors, prevention strategies, crisis assessment, and hope and
recovery after a suicide attempt. the event starts at noon. it's at the u-of-oh baker center and
everyone is welcome. admission is five dollars if you are not a city club member.
KEPR (CBS)
Oct 11, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_11

we begin tonight with the update and conclusion to the brutal murder of a woman last
december. they will spend the next 20 years behind bars for the attack. the courtroom was
packed with the 53-year-old friends and family who wanted justice for her death. they sat
quietly holding pictures of her waiting to hear him sentence. our reporter has the story. >> 20
years behind bars. that is the long-awaited sentence for the 20-year-old. time not long for love.
>> disappointed the 20 recommendation. we are also mindful that the 20 years is still above the
standard range. >> he killed the 53-year-old at his home on december 9, 2018. authorities
24

found her dead and naked. with significant trauma to her head, face, and body. >> you will
never have a time that will make up for the fact that she is not. >> the plea guilty to aggravated
murder.>> no amount of time. they will never bring back to sister. no amount of time is going
to make them whole. >> he was threatening to kill himself after admitting to killing alyssa. they
pleaded to the family before his sentencing.>> i wish nothing but hilly. that you will come to
forgive our son. >> the friends and families also got up and spoke to the court. >> he could have
stopped. >> the 911 call that he made was lengthy and chilly. it is not suitable for children.
because it was admitted in court today we will have the whole call on our website.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Oct 13, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_12

Microsoft cofounder bill gates responded to the reported connections between him and the
victims sex offender. Epstein committed suicide in august in prison. facing charges for sex
trafficking of minors. the new york times reports that he visited the mansion in new york city
three times. gates foundation employees also met with the billionaire finance who put a plan
for charitable health products. a spokesperson said that any statement they had no business or
personal relationships and that they had been meeting with them was an impairment in
judgment. new details and i are merging after sumter county deputies were shot and killed for
a man last year. the emerald herald reports that they were fired earlier last month where he
shot and killed 24-year-old nicholas peters after a short cs according to documents that the
phillips the sheriff firewall and saying that he should have never pursued peters in the first
place. and that was the chase ended the sheriff says that peters never posted a threat to justify
shooting him.
KTVL (CBS)
Oct 13, 2019 • 5:41 PM

B_OCT_OREG_51

sharyl: thereb tragic note to the story of nick horner, who was still suffering his brain injuries in
prison when we began investigating this story. in august, he reportedly committed suicide in
prison by stabbing himself with a pen. he was 39. ultimately, hornerb blame a broken system
for their sonband the deaths of the innocent people he shot. >> daniel horner: if the va would
have done its job those people would still be alive. >> karen horner: yeahb& >> daniel horner: 3
people would be alive. >> sharyl: you said he wrote you a letter. what was the gist of that in the
letter? >> karen horner: how much he loved us and how thankful he was for us and he even
tried to make us smile with these letters, this letter, and he wants us to help. help the soldiers.
>> sharyl: to the whistleblower that i guess you haven't met and haven't heard of, but he tried
to blow the whistle on these people who are languishing on the list. any thoughts about that?
>> daniel horner: too late for us. maybeb >> karen: for us. >> daniel: baybe, can help a lot of
other ones though. >> karen: yes. that's what nick would want. he wants us to do as much as
we can for the vets everywhere.

25

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 13, 2019 • 8:38 PM

B_OCT_WASH_13

for most of us psychedelic drugs conjure up images of the 19 sixty's and he's tripping out on LSD
your magic mushrooms these powerful mind-altering substances are now being steady
seriously by scientists inside some of the country's foremost medical research centers there
being used to treat depression At the early results are impressive anxiety and addiction as are
the experiences of the study volunteers who go to 6 our sometimes terrifying but often life
changing psychedelic journey deep into their own minds us and you want to do to Ganassi hell
no I would like for that again it was really about was for the entire time other than the very end
and the very beginning I was crying Corinne of lawfully is talking about the pollution genic
experience she had here at Johns Hopkins University after being given a large dose of so onesided the psychedelic agent and magic mushrooms as part of an ongoing clinical trial we tell
people that their experiences may vary from very positive to do yet transcendent and lovely to
lose really help around experiences how well as fight inging and experience as you have ever
had in your life that Sciences Roland Griffiths for nearly two decades now he and his colleague
matthew johnson had been giving what they call a heroic doses of suicide in more than 350
volunteers many struggling with addiction depression and anxiety can you tell who's going to
have a bad experience who will have transcendent our ability to predict that is almost non don't
really think about history will at are ohio's say they have something like that my vote would call
a bad trip but most of those folks will actually saying the that was key to the experience Korean
look awfully was a smoker for 46 years and said she tried everything to quit before being given
suicide and at Johns hopkins last year so side in itself is known to do do you remember what
bike specifically what you were saying or less the ceiling this room were clouds like heavy rain
clouds and gradually they were lowering and I thought I was going to suffocate from the clouds
that was more than a year ago she says she hasn't smoked since study she took the party is still
ongoing but in an earlier small study just 15 long-term smokers 80% had quit 6 months after
taking a suicide that that's double the rate of any over the counter smoking session product
they come to a profound shift of world view essentially shifting sense of self that I think they
see their life it a different way in their world view changes and and they are less identified with
that self narratives people might use the term ego and neck creates a sense of freedom and not
just with smokers appear usually cocktails usually vodka sodas to kill photo booth Goshen
Soto's John Custer accomplice was drinking a staggering 20 cocktails night and didn't warn he
was slowly killing himself he decided to enroll in another suicide and trial at New York
University during one side concession he was flooded with powerful feelings in images from his
past stuff for come up that I haven't thought of since they happened old memories you hadn't
remembered conducted I felt you know a lot of shame and embarrassment throughout one of
the sessions that my drinking and help dad I felt from my parents to let put up with all this he
took suicide in 2016 he says he hasn't had a drink since you ever have a day where you wake up
you know I wish I could have vied very dour view never not at all not at all and wishes the
craziest thing because that was my favorite thing to do using psychedelic drugs and therapy is
not new I were hundreds of scientific studies done on A similar compound lsd in the 19 fifty's
and sixty's was tested on more than 40000 people song and controlled therapeutic settings like
this one but there were also abuses the U.S. military and CIA experimenting with lsd sometimes
26

with our patients' knowledge fear over rampant drug use and the spread of the counterculture
movement not to mention Harvard professor Timothy Leary urging people to turn on tune in
drop out late to clamp down this nation faces a major crisis in terms of the increasing use of
drugs particularly among our young people in 1970 President Richard Nixon signed the
controlled substances act nearly all scientific research us into the effects of psychedelics on
people stopped wasn't until 2000 it scientists Roland Griffiths won FDA approval to study so
sudden this whole area of research has been in a deep freeze for 25 or 30 years and so as a
scientist I sometimes feel like rip Van Winkle off and what you saw over goals Yes good red
lights start flashing this is extraordinarily interesting and youth unprecedented and the capacity
of the human organism to change it just it was astounding it sounds like you were endorsing
the us for everybody Yeah Let's be really clear on that we hear very aware of the risks and
would not recommend that people simply go out and do this Griffith said Johnson's screen out
people with psychotic disorders or with close relatives with has schizophrenia or bipolar
disorder study volunteers at Johns hopkins or given weeks of intensive counseling before and
after the 6 hours suicide experience so aside and has given a carefully controlled setting 1.3
times to date they say there's not been a single serious adverse outcome on Nantucket and we
were told we couldn't recorded anyone participating in the study while they were on
assignment because it might impact their experience but we were shown how it begins with Al
assad it questions we hope you lay on the Couch with a blindfold shut out distractions put
headphones on and headphones playing a mix of coral and classical music a psychedelic sound
track with the train to God Mary cousin mono watching over you who can see him give me your
hand so I'm gonna take your hand everything is done the same way it was for the lst
experiments scientists conducted the 19 fifty's and sixty's so the most dramatic results have
been with terminal cancer patients struggling with anxiety and paralyzing depression and stars
see the colors and geometric to sign and psychologists so cool all and how lovely and and then
though visions they can carry puppets was diagnosed with stage 3 lung cancer in 2013 during
her suicide session she found herself trapped in a nightmare her mind created and anxious and
prehistoric barren land and there's these men with pickaxes just slamming under rocks so this
felt absolutely real true absolutely real.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 13, 2019 • 8:48 PM

B_OCT_WASH_14

author Michael Pollan road about suicide and studies in a best-selling book called how to
change your mind is part of his research he tried so side of himself to help build an
underground God with it because things are cancer patient % like I touch the face of God you
were skeptical about when you hear phrases like that Yeah I love is the most important thing in
the universe and something tells me that it's like okay if you don't you don't go over some of
the phrases and I may give me the willies is a writer and I really struggle that was during one of
my experiences I came to the Earth shattering conclusion that loves the most important thing in
the universe but it's that's a hallmark cards to a friend and dumb and yet while you were on it
and after words profoundly true it is profoundly true guess it is a hallmark card there's a reason
one of the things I could do is they peel away all those essentially protective levels of iron
median and cynicism that we that we acquire as we get older you back to those kind of Oh my
27

God I forgot all about love Hollande said he also experienced with the researchers describe as
an ego loss or identity law for quieting the constant boys we all have her hands I did have this
experience of seeing my ego burst into a cloud of Post-it notes I know it sounds crazy I would
argue without any good furor 50 yet to be there with researchers believe that sensation of
identity and loss occurs because suicide been quiet these two areas of the brain and normally
communicate with each other they're part of a region called the default mode network it's
especially active when we're thinking about ourselves and our lives and it's where you connect
what happens in your life to this story who you are it we'll develop story overtime about a time
when the past was like one person we are how we react and that the fact is interesting things
happen himself goes quiet in brands including this rewiring happens the to see that rewiring
Johns Hopkins signed his matthew johnson showed us the representational charge of brain
activity the circle on the left shows normal communication between part of the brain on the
right what happens on suicide it there's an explosion of connections or cross-talk between
areas of the brain that don't normally communicate the difference is just startling right is that
why people are having experiences of seeing your repressed memories of past memories are
people who died or that's what we think and even the perceptual effect sometimes this seizure
like that the scenes sound people seasoand Yes sometimes I don't know that it is bright yellow
right maybe the egos one character among many in your mind and you don't necessarily have
to listen to that voice its chattering you and criticizing you and tell you what to do and that's
very freeing it was certainly 3 4 kerry how this cancer his nose bridge her brain her crippling
anxiety death is gone that's amazing and I feel like that's a surprise me living doesn't frighten
me I don't frighten me that frightens me but this interview for example jeff doesn't home it
turns out most of the 51 cancer patients and Johns Hopkins study experience Significant
decreases in depressed mood and anxiety after trying so side than two-thirds of them rated
their suicide in sessions as among the most meaningful experiences of their lives for some it
was on par with the birth of their children to this day it you almost and make it's still alive being
it's still absolutely lying and me to make you happier Yeah and and don't necessarily use the
word happy constant for fight for every life suffered from anxiety my whole life uncomfortable
it can be okay.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 14, 2019 • 9:00 AM

B_OCT_WASH_15

Microsoft co-found bill gates barely spent a little more time with a convicted sex offender
Jeffrey Epstein them was previously reported case told the Wall Street Journal last month he
didn't have any business relationship or French with up steam who committed suicide in prison
in August as he faced a child sex trafficking charges but now the new York times reports Gates
visited Epstein's manhattan mansion at least 3 times after after he was convicted of sex crimes
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 14, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_OCT_WASH_16

a bad google rev center of one man's threat to shoot up a spokane business. criminal w il l the s
us pect edfa ka judge today. but last night... ...he spoke exclusively to our kyle simchuk... saying
28

he regrets what he said... and that his anger got the best of him. 56"i called their customer
service line and i told them i'd go to their dallas headquarters and i would shoot everybody."
:05 that's the reason chesed johnson is behind bars, charged with a felony. 15:02:14 "i'm not
even like a gun person, i'm more anti-gun." :03 spokane police say he threatened to shoot up a
business in spokane, and the company's headquarters in dallas. 15:03:38"people can view me
as the crazy guy who made a threat but at least they'll know that this company has got issues."
:04johnson worked for a prison consulting agency on the 14th floor of the wells fargo building.
he says he had issues with the company that leased the office space. 15:00:20"i wrote a
negative google review about them." :03johnson's former boss, who asked not to be named,
said there was an issue with one employee, who was eventually fired. he claims johnson
became interested in another employee, but the feelings weren't mutual. "she would cover her
eyes when i walked into the office." :04johnson's former boss -- who's known him for 30 years
says he kept unleashing on the internet -- leaving negative google reviews about the leasing
company -- all of them were taken 15:01:43 "i've tried for months to get them to remove that
block and they've never once responded to anything -- any email, and phone call." :07johnson's
boss ended up firing him, and calling spokane police several times when johnson made suicidal
threats. johnson says he's a good person and would never harm anyone. 15:04:04 "i've never
been arrested, i'm honorably discharged from the military, i've done tons of volunteer work, i
tried to donate a kidney." :0515:02:16i was just upset, yeah sure i regret saying it there was not
intention." :04 that was kyle simchuck reporting. johnson is charged with felony harassment...
and says he can't afford to pay his 15-thousand dollar bond. again... he'll face a judge later
today.
KLSR (FOX)
Oct 14, 2019 • 7:49 AM

B_OCT_OREG_52

a new study reveals a racial december parity in suicide attempts. researchers found more than
100,000 black teens between the ages of 12 and 18 went to the er after trying to harm
themselves. researchers in new york are taking a closer look at traumatic brain injuries. rather
than nerve damage and deceased brain injury payments. and researchers in spain have
identified some recent causes of acne. acne sufferers consumes more sweets. so canadas and
chocolate in their diet. those are some of the day's top health stories. cbs news new york.
KNDO (NBC)
Oct 14, 2019 • 6:53 AM

B_OCT_WASH_17

a west richland man will spend the next two decades behind bars after strangling his former coworker to death. 25-year-old william lee was sentenced in connection with the death of 53year-old alisa brewer. lee plead guilty to second-degree murder earlier this year. back in
december, lee called 9-1-1 to report he'd killed a woman in his apartment and was going to kill
himself. he was eventually taken into custody at the scene. the franklin county sheriff's office is
investigating a shooting that started after a fight. it happened near road 60... off argent road in
pasco early yesterday morning. deputies found shell casings at the scene. they say no one got

29

hurt, but two cars were hit by bullets. if you know anything about this incident, call the franklin
county sheriff's office.
KMTR (NBC)
Oct 14, 2019 • 6:32 PM

B_OCT_OREG_53

suicide attempts among that teenagers are on the rise. that's according to a new study from
nyu. researches look at survey results from nearly 200,000 hundred high school students
between 1991 and 2017. they found suicide attempts increased among black teens for
exceeding their white and Hispanic peers. the study also showed one in five adolescents of any
race think about suicide and one in 10 has a suicide fan.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 14, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_18

suicide attempts among black children and teens are increasing at alarming rates the findings
come from the study trends of suicidal behaviors among high school students in the U.S. 1991
to 2017 self-reported suicide attempts for black adolescents rose by 73% in those years could
self-reported suicide attempts for White adolescents fell by 7.5 %
KONG-SEA
Oct 14, 2019 • 11:30 AM

B_OCT_WASH_19

one celebrities custody battle is getting pretty ugly. racquel what is going on? >> jeremy
renner's ex-wife said he threatened to kill her and put a gun in his mouth and threatened to kill
himself. it is detailed with his ex-wife looking for sole custody of their six-year-old daughter ava
and he kissed the actor of being on drugs and threatening to kill himself and sony and firing a
into the ceiling while their daughter was asleep. the accusations are one sided with the specific
goal in mind. >> here is a couple, clearly he is speaking your truth, they were all privy to this.
the whole world. this is a couple in shambles. definitely and the domestic violence sort of way.
to make matters worse, you have the whole world looking in on you. >> high-risk, high yield. it's
the downside. that's what it is. when you are out there there is a part of you that needs that in
another part of you that all of this attention will kill you. it's a double-edged sword for sure
KOBI
Oct 14, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_54

students and staff at klamath union high school are mourning the loss of a student who took
her own life over the weekend. the announcement was made to students during first period
this morning. a response team of counselors has been made available to those trying to make
sense of the loss. "we have a crisis team, and a safe room set up for our students so that if they
feel like they need that support, they can go to that room - no questions asked, so that they can
talk, and listen, and be together with other peers." the crisis response team is composed of
private and school counselors, and specialists from klamath basin behavioral health. if you or
30

someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call
the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also
text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 14, 2019 • 4:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_55

k-pop star "sulli" has died. according to authorities -- the 25-year-old's manager found her dead
at her home in south korea today. police say it appears the singer and actress committed
suicide. investigators found a note at the scene. sulli made her singing debut in 2009 with the
girl group f-x. in 20-15, she left the band to focus on acting -- before going solo and releasing a
single, "goblin," this past june. if you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide -there is help -- you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your
screen now and you can also find additional services on our website kdrv.com
KONG-SEA
Oct 15, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_20

there is a new allegation of sexual misconduct against matt lawer. >> lauer's formerly
colleaguens on his own old show are alleging detail encount we are a procures in his office after
a party. >> pharoh says lauer closed the door behind them then inunzipped his pants
exposesing himtz to her. >> the new allegation was detailed in ronan pharoh's exposa catch and
kill. the woman confided to ann curry. >> who tells fair oh o in the book it was at close you as
you could get to a woman melting in front much you in pain. >> and she warned her boss base
lauer saying he had a problem with women. >> but as far as curry ever heard, nothing
happened. >> ronan reports sources close to matt told him he disputed the accuser's account.
nbc newss president noah oppenheim said this about the accusation. at the time of the
employee exit three years later she made no complaint about lauer. and now disturbing new
fallout from lauer's alleged rape of brooke nevils petition 2014 olympics are breaking. pharoh
reads his own words in the audio edition of the book. >> over the course of the past two years
nevils had attempted suicide. she had been hospitalized for z ptsd. she lost 14 pounds and gone
to doctors in 21 sometimes in a single period. >> he. >> lauer called the encounter mutual and
consensual.
KTVZ (NBC)
Oct 15, 2019 • 6:47 PM

B_OCT_OREG_56

stress and anxiety can come from anywhere ... even the workplace. after seeing a higher rate of
professionals dying by suicide, a florida clinical psychologist decided to switch up her method of
treatment sabirah rayford reports. ### ### at therapeutic oasis in boca raton, it's quiet time.
with the help of clinical psychologist nicole davis, these women aren't just meditating, they're
taking control of their lives. "working women, myself included, there's a lot of pressure to be a
particular way and it's about acknowledging what our way is and what works for us." it's called
mindfulness-based stress reduction or mbsr. in an 8-week training course using breathing and
31

meditation techniques, davis says the goal is to help people gain self-awareness to be able to
deescalate stressful situations. "i found myself as a single mom with no job, having to support
three children and just doing it all on my own." lisa ladomer says those circumstances started to
lead her down a dark path. "my needs fell to the bottom of the totem pole. there were times i
laid in bed and think, i can't get up, i can't get up." that's when a friend stepped in and
recommended mbsr. "i was able to bring that feeling of the meditation into everyday life, kind
of on the spot right there in the middle of the workday deal with something and move on." now
davis is hoping lisa's story inspires others to take control of their stress.
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 15, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_57

Los angeles and the New York police Department is dealing with yet another active NYPD officer
to commit suicide but 10 this year the E.C.B. s TV reports an off-duty Sergeant killed himself his
home Tuesday night in Queens New York NYPD Commissioner james O'Neill recently called an
epidemic a mental health crisis
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 16, 2019 • 9:35 AM

B_OCT_WASH_21

we are seeing record levels of depression and mental illness dispirited young people Soren
suicide rates increasing numbers of angry and alienated alienated young males and increase
and senseless violence so he doesn't he says it's because we don't have as much religion we
have this right so I decided the check and see other country so much to us as demographic sure
ready I looked up how many people unite the percentage of people in nice said the city had no
religion pretty I guess is this okay no problem no religion does that mean believe in God or just
no no no really no religion issue Yeah I AIDS it's been on the rise I say 20% you're close Rex 28%
when it is then I looked up the UK 54% have no religion okay not affiliated with any religion
then I thought that you know everything about you today I did earlier I know about health care
so I looked up suicide and mental illness drug use and violence so forget look at this I think has
more people affiliated with religion my team but yet and the UK has last but the UK has less
when it comes to drug use less when it comes to suicide less when it comes to mental illness
overall.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Oct 16, 2019 • 5:35 PM

B_OCT_OREG_58

the church of Jesus Christ of latter-day saints is opposing conversion therapy. they issued a
statement saying parents have a right to guide the development of their children. conversion
therapy is a term used to describe practices that attempt to change a person's sexual
orientation. the American psychiatry association opposes conversion therapy and lbgtq activists
point out more than 60% of children subject to it attempt suicide. Oregon outlawed it in 2015.

32

KING-SEA (NBC)
Oct 16, 2019 • 6:12 PM

B_OCT_WASH_22

reporter: tonight, the nypd is in mourning. late tuesday an off-duty officer in queens took his
own life marking the department's tenth suicide this year. it's a tragedy apriler knows too well.
>> my husband max was an amazing human being. >> reporter: max scherzer, a new jersey cop
shot himself in 2016 leaving april behind with their 4-month-old twins. >> my day begins with
that gunshot, you know, and i relive all of that all over again up until now up until the present
moment. >> reporter: for years, max struggled with the stress of the job turning to alcohol to
cope when he asked to talk to a therapist, april says the department took his gun away and sent
him home for 30 days. >> he was worried what everyone would think of him. >> reporter: more
police officers died by suicide than in the line of duty how do you explain what has happened
>> you know, you can't look at it and come up with any single solution but now we want to talk
openly we want to tell our cops, it's okay to ask for help. >> reporter: the nypd now planning to
put peer counselors in every precinct house. >> i don't know if this will help but we have to try
something. >> reporter: april working with the organization to help other families wants more
mental health support for those in the line of duty. >> we hold our police officers to such a high
standard, why don't we take better care of them >> reporter: an important question so many
are asking tonight? rehema ellis, nbc news, New York.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 16, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_23

the church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints says it's against the proposed ban a huge job of
so-called conversion therapy he by psychologists for LGBTQ miners there's a pending state
regulation that would bar psychologists from using the therapy which seeks to change the
sexual orientation of those Myers the group equality Utah tweeted it's opposite insane studies
have found that more than 60% of children subjected to that type of therapy and attempt
suicide.
KONG-SEA
Oct 16, 2019 • 11:37 AM

B_OCT_WASH_24

moving on, dolly parton consider taking her own life. she talks about the moment she received
a sign from god while riding her suicide note on a new podcast, listen. >> my little dog, popeye,
at that time jumped up on the bed. at the time i was iting my, you know, so god, g od, the og,
gld, dog, god spelled backwards. i always thought that may have been the very thing. >> you
are writing a suicide note? >> i was thinking about it. >> al, you were riveted by that. >> what's
wrong? >> nothing, that was interesting. >> i find someone who went through the darkest part
of her life, reaching for a sign and got it. >> whatever saved her life, i am all for it. >> here is the
thing when you're contemplating suicide, for a lot of people, it is not necessarily like they really
wants to die, they are searching for something. if that is what she connected with then i am
grateful that she did. when i was doing morning radio show in denver, a gentleman called me
and told me that the day before he was going to take his life. and, i don't even remember what i
33

said, to be honest. and he said something about that made him think differently, and i have
been connected with this individual for over 10 years. and, i, honestly was just talking about a
story about myself and i don't remember what it was, but for him, he connected with that, and
i think that people are just looking to be connected. >> i agree. and you said most of the time it
is a call for help, that is true. 10-20 million people worldwide, every year attempted suicide.
about 1 million of those people, and this is according to treatment for addiction, 1 million to
carry out with that suicide you have a large amount of people who are just looking for that
connection. and, the connection ultimately does save their life. >> this is kind of what Pete
Buttigieg said, not begin as a gun thing but he did say having access to guns. everybody does
have a bad night. that guy that you spoke to the next day, if he had access to a gun in his awer,
things may have worked out differently. just not having the access or taking a beat, taking a
night and sleeping on it would save a lot of lives. >> if any of you err in that position you are not
alone. we have some free crisis hotline numbers. please, no that there is hope and help out
there.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 16, 2019 • 2:25 PM

B_OCT_WASH_25

NYPD officers dying by suicide side the NYPD says they are off duty police sergeant died of a
self-inflicted gunshot wound in Queens he was found with the deadly womb late Tuesday in
utopia out 178 Street in Union Turnpike this is the 10th NYPD suicide this year twice as many as
in all 2018 police Commissioner James O'Neill has called the rash of police suicides a mental
health crisis.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 18, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_59

surveillance video first obtained by koin6 news shows us inside parkrose high school on may 17,
when coach kenon lowe's quick action saved lives. jeff: our emily burris is live at parkrose
tonight, with more of the story you'll see only on koin. emily? >> just days after the gun scare,
coach kenon lowe spoke to the media, telling us what was going through his mind that day. he
says that felt like the universe put him in the right place at the right time, now, we are seeing
just how right he was. >> in a fraction of a second i analyzed everything really fast, i saw the
look in his face, look in his eyes, looked at the gun, realized it was a real gun and then my
instincts just took over. >> a gun grab, ending in an emotional embrace. for the first time we're
getting an inside look at the moments coach keanon lowe, a security guard at parkrose high
school, confronted a student, armed, and in crisis. >> i can see him coming into the room with
just a gun in his hand. it was terrifying. it was truly terrifying. >> we all hid, we hid under some
clothes and stuff too just in case anything would happen. >> students, that day, scared, parents
realizing their worst fears as the school went into lock down. >> none of us knew if we were
going to come out alive >> but everyone made it out safely, and now we're seeing just how
incredibly timed it all was. coach lowe had been called to the fine arts building to get a student,
what he didn't know was that just moments before, that student, angel granados diaz, snuck a
shotgun inside, the two almost meeting in the hallway. >> i walk in there, i get to the classroom,
34

im in the classroom for 15, 20 seconds, you know i ask the teacher 'is the student here?' >> he
was just steps behind, a shotgun now tucked under his coat. >> the door opens, im within arm's
length of the door, about 3 feet away from the door, and there's a kid with a gun, a shotgun. i
lunged for the gun, put two hands on the gun, he had his two hands on the gun, and obviously
the kids are runing out of the classroom and screaming . >> lowe says running, never crossed
his mind. he handed the gun off to another teacher, then did something unexpected, wrapping
granados diaz up, in a hug. as students ran to safety, and police rushed to the scene, he
remained focused on the teen in front of him. >> i felt compassion for him, a lot of times
especially when you're young, you don't realize what you're doing until it's over. >> last week,
in a deal avoiding jail time, the teen pleaded guilty to gun charges, investigators say he'd made
suicidal statements, and was struggling with mental health issues. the gun was loaded with just
one round. lowe says love is what brought him to coach, and work, at parkrose. love for his
students, his kids. >> he broke down and i just wanted to let him know that i was there for him i
told him i was there to save them i was there for a reason and this is a life worth living . >> after
all of this happened, coach lo said he wanted to get back to school and back to work and he has
been back to work and is out with the football team tonight. the parkrose broncos just pulling
out a win in pendleton. back to you. jeff: that video is something else. jennifer: thank you.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 18, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_OCT_WASH_26

recent study show an alarming number of veterinarians and dying by suicide for veterinary
industry in recent years has started addressing but many experts see as a mental health crisis
Laurie Harbor is a veterinary social worker other Marines deal with death and dying it 5 times
the rate it I human doctors spent significant time I get sick of me it get emotional impact
harbors says it's exacerbated by a number of things compassion fatigue depression and
financial struggles often because of student debt just crushing make it out of University they
think that they're gonna make sure that the gallery help calm the faith that they may find out I
thought this Sunday’s several local veterinarian and technicians will participate in the out of the
darkness community walk to raise awareness and money for the American Foundation for
suicide Prevention begins at 10 a.m. Sunday at Seattle centers Fisher pavilion.
AM 860
Oct 18, 2019 • 1:49 PM

B_OCT_OREG_60

there's all kinds of good news about America however there's also news the other direction I
believe that he very sharp I mean undeniable decline in religious affiliation and religious
attendances not good news and bad news but does anyone doubt that this 30 56% increase in
youth suicide this is a report from me centers for disease control it you read his stuff okay
between in 10 years between 2017 and 2007 to ask is it wasn't that long ago I okay can we
remember that was lying and the Bush administration wasn't like another a hero I was 10 years
ago since that time the rate of suicide among 10 to 14 year-olds know look any suicide is it is it
an unspeakable tragedy it it it woos people forever as I mentioned all of it the show before I am
and people that have known very well who killed themselves and and it it's it's it's not an easy
35

thing and thank God no not family members but it 86 take between 10 to 14 year-olds the
suicide rate is triple triples in 10 years and right now just a couple years ago they've they've
always had high or murder rates for young people for a teenager it's for people 14 to 19 and
been hiring of violence a big knee all there are more people who dying in suicide and homicide
that age group the centers for disease Control's us despite concerns over rising suicide Rays
researchers aren't sure the exact causes arising depression among adolescents of people why is
ahead drug use stress and access to firearms might all be contributing fires factors experts say
some mental health experts suggested social media use among teens might be feeling the
increase and mental health conditions and leading to greater suicide risk and some early
studies of link smartphone use trying cited depression and sleep deprivation among
adolescents now what I think is fascinating about all this is among the violent deaths of young
people Mass shootings of any kind which get all the publicity all of the publicity is less than half
a % it's a fun very small percentage we'll get a grip on that Stephen Marysville Washington
steve here on my own and veg out thanks Mike.
AM 860
Oct 18, 2019 • 1:44 PM

B_OCT_OREG_61

… killed themselves and and it it's it's it's not an easy thing and thank God no not family
members but it 86 take between 10 to 14 year-olds the suicide rate is triple triples in 10 years
and right now just a couple years ago they've they've always had high or murder rates for
young people for a teenager it's for people 14 to 19 and been hiring of violence a big knee all
there are more people who dying in suicide and homicide that age group the centers for
disease Control's us despite concerns over rising suicide Rays researchers aren't sure the exact
causes arising depression among adolescents of people why is ahead drug use stress and access
to firearms might all be contributing fires factors experts say some mental health experts
suggested social media use among teens might be feeling the increase and mental health
conditions and leading to greater suicide risk and some early studies of link smartphone use
trying cited depression and sleep deprivation among adolescents.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 18, 2019 • 4:20 PM

B_OCT_OREG_62

according to the centers for disease control and prevention the youth suicide rate rose 56percent over a ten-year period. for decades suicide rate for teenagers and young adults was
relatively rare. from 2007 through 20-17 the number of suicides jumped from nearly seven
deaths per 100-thousand people to almost 11-deaths. suicide is now the second-most common
cause of death for young men and women. it's now only outpaced by accidents. suicide rates
increase-wipe fs if you or someone you know is at risk of suicide please call the national suicide
prevention hotline 1-800-273-talk
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Oct 19, 2019 • 8:39 AM

B_OCT_WASH_27

36

doctors to be trained and other counsel their patients about how to prevent gun deaths giving
nearly 4 million $ to the University of California Davis to develop a program Dr. Amy Gardner
worst is a psychiatrist with U.C. Davis health fielded the training Thanks so much for being with
us thanks for having me well what kind of advice conductor gives that might prevent gun deaths
well it's really depended on the patient in the situation and a couple of examples you know we
often see patients to have depression and accused have suicidal thoughts and those patients
who have firearms in the home maybe risk of actually attempting suicide and if they make an
attempt with the gunman who they are likely to survive that attempt and so being able to
counsel patients you know if you're in a period of depression and you have other risk factors for
suicide like heavy drinking or prior history of suicide attempts made this is the time to get the
gun out of the home from a while until you're feeling better can tell you're drinking has abated
a little bit your passions improved many doctors these days glass questions that are aimed at
discovering anything about domestic abuse in the home there's a similar absolutely and it's
definitely related we know that more than half of female homicide victims are killed by
romantic partners so having a situation where there is domestic violence in the home we want
to be able to counsel people about what their options are and procedure if there's a gun
involved he want to be able to know that's a situation could become very lethal very quickly do
I understand this correctly all positions serve and given instruction of open up this line of
inquiry were developing the program is not a mandate all positions to go deep into this
discussion with every patient they see target is that we want to make sure all physicians are
aware of their resources how to access them said the time arise so for medical students we
want to incorporate it into the curriculum for everybody and a psychiatrist but I took
technology is I did the surgery irritation I studied for my oncology tests somewhere deep in the
back of my brand I have knowledge still season people who go in to very specialized practices
where this may not be something using a day-to-day basis we want them to have exposure to
medical school because it is part of a public health and public safety curriculum once people are
in residency training curriculum that is developed at that level will be more specialized for the
particulars of that special to so pediatricians often focused more on the accidental injury and
the home there's many homes that think that the kids in the House don't know where the guns
are kept and about 75% of those kids actually do know where the guns are kept and a
significant number of those school-age kids handle the times without their parents' knowledge
to her pediatrician room it's gonna be focused on things like safe storage keeping firearms away
from children for psychiatrists alley gonna be focused more on suicide and threats against
others a family practice stocks they often see people who were struggling with depression and
substance use so maybe more focused on that risks that are Associated with those things which
is mostly suicide I wonder if you've got any country reaction from doctors who say I there look
that's patience business sure look I've got enough to do the overwhelming opinion among
physicians is that this is our curvy we should be asking because and violence is a public health
epidemic can we counsel patients on the time about their health and safety we talked about
cigarette smoking and alcohol use and the importance of a good diet and exercise so mostly
physicians think we should be doing this but mostly physicians don't do and time is one of the
biggest barriers especially in primary care people have so much to screen foreign talk about we
really want to educate providers on how to identify patients at risk and intervened
appropriately in those situations so if they if they sense a patient is depressed contemplating
37

doing something that's when they follow up on that line of questioning exactly if somebody
comes in from the allergy season they don't have problems with depression and they keep their
guns for hunting safely locked away in a storage unit and there's a Teenagers a home nobody
drinks we don't really need to go a lot further down the line of rock U.C. davis psychiatrist Dr
amy bar our thanks so much.
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 19, 2019 • 2:20 PM

B_OCT_OREG_63

according to the centers for disease control and Prevention the 20000 suicides by firearm in this
country 64 day that 8 times the developed world that's up 19% the past decade so gun violence
and suicide are dramatically and tragically think in this country there are 300 _ninety_ _three_
million guns alone greater _ninety_ _three_ million guns zone in this country as a 2017
population that year 3 ordered 30 million which means gun per person in America one point to
her guns alone in 20 post 2007 for just 10 years ago to ordered 7 million so in 10 years through
from Jordan 7 million gun owners for 393 new reducing gun deaths statistics 2014 33130 2015
36252 2016 38658 you can hear it in your mind see the trend line average gun deaths per day in
this country 96 of those 16 would be suicide much more likely if Europe african-american to be
killed by a gunman a White person this country 10 at times tortured after American child with a
ratio of a White child being killed by guns 15 times more likely if you're a black child in this
country a White child to be killed by a firearm up rise here Ryen I promise to be approaching
the bench otherwise at the table so I'm gonna have a House maid hot dog which sounds like the
locale none fatty item on the menu with the flock raw butter think that will probably take care
of you go you mentioned.
KTVZ (NBC)
Oct 19, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_64

newly released surveillance video shows a powerful momen.. a coach embracing a student who
he just disarmed. the teen brought a loaded shotgun to parkrose high school in portland back in
may. the multnomah county district attorney's office released the surveillance video... which
shows security guard and football coach keanon lowe disarming student angel granados-diaz.
the two hug before police move in to arrest him. the then 18-year-old student walked into the
school with a shotgun hidden in his arms... lowe found granados-diaz in a bathroom with the
gun... and was able to separate the student from the weapon. police say the teen was suicidal...
and did not have the intent to hurt anyone other than himself while at the school. granadosdiaz was sentenced to 36 months of probation... and immediate treatment for and mental
health and substance abuse.
KHQ (NBC)
Oct 19, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_28

surveillance video out of oregon shows a powerful moment a coach embraces a student who he
just disarmed. the video out of portland shows a teen in parkrose high school with a loaded gun
38

back in may. security guard and football coach keanon lowe disarmed the student... before
wrapping him up in a hug. police said the 18-year-old was suicidal and didn't have the intent to
hurt anyone at the school other than himself. that student was sentenced to 36 months of
probation and immediate treatment for mental health and substance abuse.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Oct 19, 2019 • 5:32 PM

B_OCT_WASH_29

we're seeing new video tonight of the moments an oregon high school football coach disarming
a student who brought a gun to school. you can see that right there in that video, surveillance
video shows the 19-year-old entering a classroom wearing a trench coat where he was holding
a shotgun. records show that his plan was to kill himself. seconds later coach keenan lowe
wrestled the weapon out of the student's hands and then pulled him out of the classroom. then
giving him a hug in the hallway. >> i felt compassion for the kid to be honest. i had a real life
conversation. you know, obviously he broke down and i just wanted to let him know i was there
for him. i told him i was there to save him. i was there for a reason. and that, you know, this is a
life worth living. >> last week diaz pleaded guilty to two gun-related charges a part of a plea
agreement. he will spend 36 months on probation and receive mental treatment. health and
substance abuse
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 19, 2019 • 5:36 PM

B_OCT_OREG_65

to newly released video from parkrose high school that has a lot of people talking. it is a
powerful moment. a coach is embracing the student after taking away a shotgun the student
was holding. we first see parkrose student angel diaz walk into the high school with the shotgun
hidden under something. you see get there. moments later, after students ran out of the
building, you could see the football coach keenan low after he confronted the student, holding
the gun in his hand. another teacher grabs the gun, he keeps it tight hold of a student. you can
see the to talking and hope hugging. police arrived a short time later with their guns drawn and
arrest the student. we have a whole lot of sueillance video you can see at kgw.com. >>
prosecutors say the now 19- year-old never intentionally pointed the gun at anyone but himself
but never fired the weapon. he pleaded guilty earlier this month and received 3 years
probation. he has been ordered to get mental health and substance abuse treatment. >> we
want to remind you if you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide there is help
available 24 seven. the phone number on your screen when 800-273-8255.
88.5 KNKX
Oct 19, 2019 • 8:43 AM

B_OCT_WASH_30

The state of california wants doctors to be trained and other counsel their patients about how
to prevent gun deaths giving nearly 4 million $ to the University of California Davis to develop a
program Dr amy bar horse is a psychiatrist with U.C. davis health peer lead the training thanks
so much for being with us thanks for having me well what kind of advice conductor give that
39

might prevent gun deaths well it's really depended on the patient in the situation as a couple of
examples of you know we often see patients to have depression and accused have suicidal
thoughts and those patients who have firearms in the home maybe risk of actually attempting
suicide and if you they make an attempt with Goran they are not likely to survive that attempts
and so being able to counsel patients if you're in a period of depression and you have other risk
factors for suicide like heavy drinking or prior history of suicide attempts paid for the time into
it it got out of the home from a while until you're feeling better tell your drinking has abated a
little bit your passions improved many doctors these days glass questions that are aimed at
discovering anything about domestic abuse in the home there's a similar absolutely and it's
definitely related we know that than half female homicide victims are killed by romantic
partners so having a situation where there is domestic violence in the home we want to be able
to counsel people about what their options are and procedure if there's a gun involved he want
to be able to know that says situation could become very lethal very quickly do I understand
this correctly all positions are going to be given instruction of open up this line of inquiry were
developing the program is not a mandate all positions to go to Eat into this discussion with
every patient they see target is that we want to make sure all physicians are aware of their
resources and how to access them said the time arise so for medical students we do want to
incorporate it into the curriculum for everybody and a psychiatrist but I took card analogy is I
did the surgery irritation I studied for my oncology tests somewhere deep in the back of my
brain I have about knowledge still season people who go and to very specialized practices
where this may not be something they're using our day-to-day basis we want them to have
exposure to medical school because it is part of a public health and public safety curriculum
once people are in residency training curriculum that is developed at that level will be more
specialized for the particulars of that specialty so pediatricians often focused more on
accidental injury and the home there's many homes that think that the kids in the House don't
know where the guns are kept and about 75% of those kids actually do know where the guns
are kept and a significant number of those school-aged kids handle the guns without their
parents' knowledge of pediatricians room it's gonna be focused on things like safe storage
keeping firearms away from children for psychiatrists Allegany be focused more on suicide and
threats against others family practice stocks they often see people who were struggling with
depression and substance use so maybe more focused on that risks that are Associated with
those things which is mostly suicide I wonder if you've got any country reaction from doctors
who say Hi there look that's patients business sure look I've got enough to do the
overwhelming opinion among physicians is that this is our purview we should be asking because
gun violence is a public health epidemic we counsel patients all the time about their health and
safety we talked about cigarette smoking alcohol use and the importance of a good diet and
exercise stoked Moseley positions think we should be doing this but mostly physicians don't do
it and I kind of one of the biggest barriers especially in a primary care people have so much to
screen foreign talk about we really want to educate providers on how to identify patients at risk
and intervened appropriately in those situations it's so if they if they sense a patient is
depressed contemplating doing something that's when they follow up on that line of
questioning exactly if somebody comes in from the allergy season they don't have problems
with depression and they keep their guns for hunting safely locked away in a storage unit and

40

there's a teenager's home nobody drinks we don't really need to go a lot further down the line
of thought with U.C. Davis psychiatrist Dr amy bar our thanks so much for being with us.
KEPR (CBS)
Oct 19, 2019 • 6:39 PM

B_OCT_WASH_31

we have new video from an incident last may when it portland oregon high school student
brought a shotgun to school with the intent to kill himself. the security guard and the football
coach hugged the gunman. we got the number for the suicide prevention on the screen. take a
look at the video. you see students running out the door when lowe enters the classroom.
moments later, the men lunch for the gum and was able to disarm him. he calmly stepped out
into the hallway with the shotgun and handed it off to another staff member as he embraces
him. he pleaded guilty to two charges and was sentenced to three years of probation. the da
said as part of the deal he will receive mental health and substance abuse treatment.
KXLY (ABC)
B_OCT_WASH_32
Oct 19, 2019 • 8:41 PM
a new government report reveals a disturbing trend. according to the centers for disease
control and prevention the youth suicide rate rose 56- percent over a ten-year period. for
decades....suicide rate for teenagers and young adults was relatively rare.but from 2007
through 20-17 the number of suicides jumped from nearly seven deaths per 100-thousand
people to almost 11-deaths. suicide is now the second-most common cause of death for young
men and women.it's now only outpaced by accidents. some experts say these findings should
result in "a call to action." if you or someone you know is at risk of suicide please call the
national suicide prevention hotline 1-800-273- talk.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 19, 2019 • 2:16 PM

B_OCT_WASH_33

according to the centers for disease control and Prevention 20000 suicides by firearm in this
country 64 day that 8 times the developed world that's up 19% the past decade so gun violence
and suicide are dramatically and tragically evening in this country there are 300 _ninety_
_three_ million guns alone threaded _ninety_ _three_ million guns zone in this country as a
2017 population that year 3 under 30 million which means gun per person in America one point
she number of guns alone in 28 post 2007 for just 10 years ago to ordered 7 million so in 10
years to from Jordan 7 million gun owners for 393 million Gun death statistics 2014 33130 2015
me read you some 36000 children 52 2016 38658 you can it in your mind see the trend line
average gun deaths per day in this country 96 of those 16 would be suicide much more likely if
Europe African-American to be killed by a gun than a White person this country 10 where if
you're african-american child with a ratio of a White child being killed by guns 15 times more
likely to reflect child in this country and White child to be killed by a firearm rise.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Oct 19, 2019 • 9:30 AM

B_OCT_WASH_34

41

worried about increasing social isolation among men and why this might lead some men called
not by running an iron man Paul drinking whole hugging and inanimate object the take more
drastic measures I spoke to judy Phillips about this she's a sociology professor at the University
of A shift I think that this ticket to soothe she walking through a couple of grass that showed
the rate of suicide among men of different age groups those rates vary widely from the young
and the very old increasingly however middle-aged men appear to be growing risk we saw fairly
shop increase and suicide rates among men beginning 19 _ninety_ _nine_ so afraid Sompo
among men age 50 to 52 book we saw an increase of almost 50% in this suicide rate the
increase in the suicide rate among middle-aged man is troubling it's also a question of historical
patterns compared to a new generation's the optic and suicide seems to be starting a yard and
earlier especially for men one common interpretation of this trend is that it's driven by
economic problems you anything it's more complicated the trend of rising suicide rates among
middle-aged men began in the late 19 ninety's well before the great recession that started in
2007 actually from 1999 to 2005 the increases I'm amazed really confined to those who did not
have a college education but since 2005 and is now supporting that has really been across the
book I don't see these differences by education judy has other ideas about what might be
driving these changes people have fewer social supports the more likely to live far away from
family many are opting out of marriage many I getting divorced even when he chose to connect
with others were often not doing it in person I also want to just about the ways in which we we
interact and and learn and how that has changed so pay for the cost 15 French cheeses new
devices social media less face-to-face contact our entertainment said the come-up prior offense
shui what to be at home mother and kind to refuse to fix our laws so that that may also be
having an 88 and to behold two feelings of isolation social isolation could also be producing
some of these rising rates again the total so should lessen nation it isn't just emotional an
analysis of nearly 150 study has found that people with strong social relationships had about
50% mortality risk and those with weaker ties Julia host on stad her coauthors concluded that
those with weaker social relationships had a greater risk of death that people who are
physically inactive or beats let me put it another way spending time building and nurturing your
friendships might be just as important your health as eating right and exercising when we come
back we look at the culture the root of this problem he's sorry no human beans with
unbelievable emotional and social capacity and we as a culture just completely try zip out of
time and we know it stay with us
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 20, 2019 • 8:26 PM

B_OCT_WASH_35

CEOs scheme is working beautifully you have narrowed fairing in full all the critics and how he's
going to kill himself but and thinking collapses desperately you realize you have to have him
telephone to be persuaded to bring calm and meek you sure we don't know about mrs happy
loosely share the joy you understand it as well as Lago welcoming a half million $ also beyond
that that But that's how you learn to collect and exposed dare how old decides to stay alive and
then changes as well a paywall I mean how how long can you drink easy does is on his last legs
in Inoki been supplied with free elec parents only applied to leaping himself that andy have
42

something like that I have time to tell you the details now but somebody has to get out of my
cab up in the Woods and keep them hidden there that's your job you're getting there keeping
their and don't let anybody know is there Golic for both our sakes say you know mean you think
will went with pop art movement I do it only ended down this scheme of yours he had all these
Ahhhh so that's taken care to me stocks off fears a Q.B. camp in the mountains with Arafat and
you promised to join a follower and I for and traits aren't among them is you call your friend in
theatrical critic Paul Minn Yes paul I am worried about how are very jealous no okay I know we
call you yesterday intent to commit suicide I think he meant it I really worry about him okay
how people looking to assume all with a great deal of skepticism is typical and it's just good you
were one last call another or trend captain Harry bending in the Bureau missing persons on
now harry I'm not trying to drum up a story I think it really is missing I want to put an embassy
prices noticed a manifesto you feel about it now that the fighting without any help from the
police they should hang up and your pee standing then you lose that evening you catch the
train things a little time to reach gap where you're kevin so okay all of the rich gas station news
that way into the dock this without being noticed didn't recall but your mind as you can but you
find beauty in our family and having a drink and a big after being necessary greetings to waste
note me getting out of his seat candies caroli he added is beginning to believing his suicide out
and didn't usual it is Super tuesday is good publicity and even more I think is a good hang out
and enjoy might have caused it is why I can get the critics writing long preached article about
you the kind of thing meat producers all noting where then maybe we could still see an arrow
you're fired me to thinking Allison you like the long letter a farewell I'm stan through a fair way I
wish I could do that with the quotations from my great praise make with family not anxious to
take it back in new York with me now call all the critics I get a couple of them to rush up here
with me I just hope we get here you take one sleeping them but then pretend to be unable to
awaken Co we what don't you for at least half an hour you got it moving kids she is of course I
could do that I had to look absolutely down level tomorrow evening your name would be
headlines from coast to coast we need your rocks Lorde I am positive I sit on my desk and start
writing that suicide note and he should apologize to me using my cab I understand now Wow
really even though I think who is writing a suicide let me take you into the next girl who kind of
the rest of your plan and as soon as he finishes that letter and arrows on the guys you
understand that don't you I got a they didn't say anything about that when you said.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 20, 2019 • 5:43 PM

B_OCT_OREG_66

Jonathan singer is with us from WBZ in Chicago he's the President of the American Association
of suicide Algeo an associate professor of social work at Loyola University after seeing and
talking to us Well it's a pleasure thank you and start with you all of this is troubling but we'll
start with something I think will shock a lot of people those numbers from the cdc report that
the suicide rate for children 10 to 14 years old trick old from 2007 to 2017 what might be going
on here Yeah the tragedy of youth suicide it is is so painful for everybody and one of the things
that that people have a hard time believing is that an a 10 year-old could think about killing
themselves from the increases in part due to the fact that there were very few reported suicide
deaths and there are more and more part of that is reporting and part of that is access to lethal
43

means and this is some of the reasons why the rates are going up for youth kevin brunner what
do you think is going on here I actually don't know why it is going up across inch groups I and
that's an unusual that's been happening since about 2000 2008 and when people say they know
the real things I mutually skeptical and so when people go to simple solution jennings is a
simple explanations they often don't Pan out well such base what do you think I mean Let's talk
about police officers now on course comparing data year to year Cook talking about anecdotes
is Generali not always the best idea but there's one advocacy group It's a police line advocacy
group that says that as of August they say that law enforcement suicides are up by double digits
since 2018 do you mean obviously you still talk to people who are on the job he had a long
career yourself what do you think something's going on and if so what do you think it's I
definitely think that things are going on and Yes I do speak with law enforcement should teach
with the fbi and a number of things but what I see is officers were required to do they fit for
duty evaluation they see a psychologist as an adversary I know there are studies out there one
that showed out of 830 evaluations over a five-year period 94% of the officers returned to duty
so this needs to get out there and our leaders need to be involved a whole lot more than what
they are and for officers are seeking mental health treatment that they have to see that as a
positive sign one option comes and says you know things aren't going quite right they want to
be better they wanted better for themselves for the family and for the communities so it all
starts at the top as usual this society surgeries it's a lot more open about a lot of things then
used to be I mean just in the spirit of full disclosure of tell you come from a policing family had
6 police officers my family at one point and you know there's a big difference between the way
it was back in the day and the way is now I see officers on the job now with Fino dreads I see
them all different kinds hairstyles see them you know with different things just would not have
been tolerated in years ago but are you saying that openness to talking about issues feelings
problems stress the stress of the job you're saying that that's that hasn't changed that still
something that's kind of taboo in my opinion Yes absolutely you are handling it come back and
do the same thing the next day this is what we're expected to do it is getting better I'm but I
think we still have a long way to go to single out because of a calf Barber said which is that their
rates of suicide are going up among lots of groups in society do you agree with that why war
what's your take on that why is that I absolutely agree I think that you know understanding how
the rates of suicide going up in different groups helps us understand the overall rise in suicide
rates among youth and so understanding that suicide is not just a White person problem but is
a problem that affects all people and that the interventions the Prevention's and the Post
pensions we engaging in half to be called truly respectful hopefully humble and addressed
these different issues that we see in society today you start us off Let's Wheeler like what do
you think would be helpful Dr Singh first of all I think that what happens is there's Called troll
mistrust with mental health providers so we need to train our faith leaders we need to train
coaches we need to train folks who are not mental health providers to identify and respond too
emotional cognitive and behavioral problems with the cops I know that a lot of people don't
have a lot of us there are some people who have a very great deal of sympathy for people in
law enforcement just frankly it's a difficult period in our country right now some people do not
have a lot of sympathy for police officers right now and is something in this particular group I
think we make a difference would make a difference with this particular group sure it starts
with Trey Union and the Academy and see that little by little it would start in the Academy with
44

what we call a crisis intervention training and get some officers trained in that I was speaking
up and then Oregon's some time ago and the chief of police there had all of his officers trained
and cia T crisis intervention training and sense he did that he noticed a 50% reduction in the use
of force something like that officers can recognize what may be going with an individual but
also there are also learning about themselves and when maybe meeting in crisis and how do we
not get to that level that was Sergeant Kevin Briggs he's a former California highway Patrol
officer he's now a mental health advocate Kathryn Biber was also with us she's a senior
researcher at the Harvard school of public health injury Research Center and Dr. Jonathan
singer president of the American Association of suicide allergy and associate professor of social
work at Loyola University has to say again that if you're in distress or you know someone who is
you can call the National suicide Prevention lifeline at 102.3 8 to 5 5 or you can text talk to 7 4.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 20, 2019 • 5:38 PM

B_OCT_OREG_67

on npr news Michelle Martin tackle sensitive subject now it is the subject of suicide and we're
talking about this because this has been a week of difficult news yesterday morning a funeral
was held for suburban maryland police officer had been found last Monday on the top floor of a
parking garage suffering from a gunshot wound he was on duty and said he was confronting
someone but later the medical examiner confirmed that gunshot was self-inflicted on Tuesday
evening at _thirty_ _three_ year-old new York city officer was found dead by his wife also by
suicide that officer's death marked the 10th police suicide in new York this year alone and
police Commissioner James O'Neill told local journalists that for more police suicides have
already taken place and this year than in most and we could have a conversation solely about
this disturbing trend among police officers there is more earlier this week the centers for
disease control published new data and reported the death rates of suicide are on the rise
among very young people aged 10 to 24 the rate is up 56% in the last decade before we see any
more we want to tell you if you were in distress or knows someone who is you can call the
National suicide Prevention lifeline and 100 to 7.8 to 5 5 you can call 24 hours a day Let's talk
about what might be happening here with people who thought a lot about this issue and what
might be done about it Kathryn Biber is a senior researcher at the Harvard school of public
health injury research center and she joins us from boston Catherine Barber welcome thank
you we're also joined by Sergeant Kevin Briggs formerly with the california highway patrol he's
now mental health advocate such differences well known for his work on the Golden gate
bridge where he answered 4 to 6 suicide calls each month untrained other officers to deal with
these calls he's with us from chaos cpete in Broner part california such a big welcome to you as
well thanks for joining us thank you good to be here and last but not least after Jonathan singer
is with us from WBZ in Chicago he's the President of the American Association of suicide Algeo
an associate professor of social work at Loyola University after seeing and talking to us Well it's
a pleasure thank you and start with you all of this is troubling but we'll start with something I
think will shock a lot of people those numbers from the cdc report that the suicide rate for
children 10 to 14 years old trick old from 2007 to 2017 what might be going on here Yeah the
tragedy of youth suicide it is is so painful for everybody and one of the things that that people
have a hard time believing is that an a 10 year-old could think about killing themselves from the
45

increases in part due to the fact that there were very few reported suicide deaths and there are
more and more part of that is reporting and part of that is access to lethal means and this is
some of the reasons why the rates are going up for youth kevin brunner what do you think is
going on here I actually don't know why it is going up across inch groups I and that's an unusual
that's been happening since about 2000 2008 and when people say they know the real things I
mutually skeptical and so when people go to simple solution jennings is a simple explanations
they often don't Pan out well such base what do you think I mean Let's talk about police officers
now on course comparing data year to year Cook talking about anecdotes is Generali not
always the best idea but there's one advocacy group It's a police line advocacy group that says
that as of August they say that law enforcement suicides are up by double digits since 2018 do
you mean obviously you still talk to people who are on the job he had a long career yourself
what do you think something's going on and if so what do you think it's I definitely think that
things are going on and Yes I do speak with law enforcement should teach with the fbi and a
number of things but what I see is officers were required to do they fit for duty evaluation they
see a psychologist as an adversary I know there are studies out there one that showed out of
830 evaluations over a five-year period 94% of the officers returned to duty so this needs to get
out there and our leaders need to be involved a whole lot more than what they are and for
officers are seeking mental health treatment that they have to see that as a positive sign one
option comes and says you know things aren't going quite right they want to be better they
wanted better for themselves for the family and for the communities so it all starts at the top as
usual this society surgeries it's a lot more open about a lot of things then used to be I mean just
in the spirit of full disclosure of tell you come from a policing family had 6 police officers my
family at one point and you know there's a big difference between the way it was back in the
day and the way is now I see officers on the job now with Fino dreads I see them all different
kinds hairstyles see them you know with different things just would not have been tolerated in
years ago but are you saying that openness to talking about issues feelings problems stress the
stress of the job you're saying that that's that hasn't changed that still something that's kind of
taboo in my opinion Yes absolutely you are handling it come back and do the same thing the
next day this is what we're expected to do it is getting better I'm but I think we still have a long
way to go to single out because of a calf Barber said which is that their rates of suicide are going
up among lots of groups in society do you agree with that why war what's your take on that
why is that I absolutely agree I think that you know understanding how the rates of suicide
going up in different groups helps us understand the overall rise in suicide rates among youth
and so understanding that suicide is not just a White person problem but is a problem that
affects all people and that the interventions the Prevention's and the Post pensions we
engaging in half to be called truly respectful hopefully humble and addressed these different
issues that we see in society today.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Oct 20, 2019 • 10:10 PM

B_OCT_WASH_36

here's a big turnout today at seattle center for a really important cause. this is the out of the
darkness walk to raise awareness for suicide prevention. you know suicide is the 10th leading
cause of death in the u.s.. money raised at today's event will support the american dation for
46

suicide prevention in its fight to end suicide and organizers say walks like this are really all
about hope and more people that we have walking with us. that means more people talking
about their mental health. talking about suicide prevention and in really bringing the taboo
subject of suicide out of the darkness and into the light where we can really talk and give hope
and healing to those that have been impacted if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide the national suicide prevention lifeline is 1 800 273 8255.
Portland's CW
Oct 20, 2019 • 10:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_68

an organization representing families who have lost a loved one to police violence in oregon
and washington are rallying for more police accountability. pacific northwest family circle was
co-founded by irene kalonji, the mother of christopher kalonji, the 19-year-old who was killed
during a clackamas county sheriff's confrontation in oak grove in 2016. though his death was
ruled a suicide, his mother disputes that claim. she says police did not adequately de-escalate
what she describes as her son experiencing a mental health crisis when police shot and killed
him. >> we decided to bring the whole family together who had the same terrible experience,
losing a loved one in the hands of police.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Oct 20, 2019 • 9:16 PM

B_OCT_WASH_37

according to the centers for disease control and Prevention 20000 suicides by firearm in this
country 64 day that 8 times the developed world that's up 19% the past decade so gun violence
and suicide are dramatically and tragically evening in this country there are 300 _ninety_
_three_ million guns alone threaded _ninety_ _three_ million guns zone in this country as a
2017 population that year 330 million which means gun per person in America one point she
number of guns own in 20 post 2007 for just 10 years ago to ordered 7 million so in 10 years to
from Jordan 7 million gun owners for 393 million and reducing gun deaths statistics 2014
_thirty_ _three_ 1130 2015 36002 ordered 52 2016 38600 and 58 you can it in your mind see
the trend line average gun deaths per day in this country 96 of those 60 would be suicide much
more likely if Europe African-American to be killed by a gunman.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 20, 2019 • 9:26 PM

B_OCT_OREG_69

spoke to duty for tips about this she's a sociology professor at Rutgers University the trigger
and if you ask him for fear she walking through a couple of gaffs that showed the rate of suicide
among men of different age groups those rates vary widely from the young and the very old
increasingly however middle-aged men appear to be growing risk saw fairly shocking increase
and suicide rates among men beginning 1999 so afraid Sompo among men aged 15 to 50 full
we saw an increase of almost 50% and necessary the increase in the suicide rate among middleaged man and his struggling it's also a question of historical patterns compact one generations
the optic and suicide seems to be starting a yard and earlier especially for men one common
47

interpretation of this trend is that it's driven by economic problems Judith think it's more
complicated the trend of rising suicide rates among middle-aged men began in the late 19
ninety's well before the great recession that started in 2007 actually from 1999 to 2005 the
increases I'm amazed really confined to those was did not have a college education but since
2005 that is now support that's really then across the book.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Oct 21, 2019 • 7:45 AM

B_OCT_WASH_38

Jalen that's pretty much what I get too wonky man this is bill larson he's a retired state Patrol
captain who was brought in last year to run the show land County Jail Wenatchee Washington
he says he found an overcrowded and understaffed jail where inmates regularly manufactured
alcohol consumed drugs and assaulted each other and then there were the suicide attempts
not an everyday occurrence but it's not extremely rare eager inmates will fashion some kind of
a noose and try to hang themselves in 2017 and army veteran named Jeremy lavender died by
suicide initial land County jail since said Larson says his staff his save the lives of a number of
suicidal inmates but he worries about another death I comfortable saying and it's not a matter
of it matter when it larson has requested more staff is making changes to how the jail operates
ultimately though he believe Schwan County will have to build a new facility if it wants to make
the jail safe for inmates and staff but there's a lot of opposition to building new jails and very
fraught hoppers active in jail politics.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 21, 2019 • 12:10 PM

B_OCT_WASH_39

a student at a Portland high school video of the incident has been released and it's pretty
incredible what concede coast carly johnson reports he unload the football and track coach at
Park rose high school was hailed a hero after stopping the student back in pretty crazy situation
you know in a fraction of a second I saw that look in his face look in his eyes look at you guys
realize it was a real guy now video released from the hallway shows just after he took that
shotgun away from 8 18 year-old Angel Granados ds coach loaded something pretty remarkable
he rapped that student in a tight embrace and for a few seconds the student tries to pull away
pushing the coaches shoulders but Loew hold on highly and eventually the embrace his return
could not STS had been suicidal for months leading up to this after a breakup with his girlfriend
he planned to commit suicide at school that day saying he wanted to do there so that his
mother wouldn't discover his body his sentences for 3 years’ probation and he's receiving
mental health and substance abuse treatment.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Oct 21, 2019 • 7:15 PM

B_OCT_WASH_40

the district attorney's office says the student was armed with a shotgun loaded with a single
shell and reportedly intended to kill himself. lo has this message to other teachers and staff.
love your kids. you know i wouldn't signed up to coach park rose football or signed up to be a
48

security guard at park rose if i didn't love these kids. you know if if you're a teacher if you're a
staff member you should you should love your kids. and i would expect every teacher and every
staff member to do what they can in in you know to make sure this stuff like this doesn't
happen. well the student recently pleaded guilty to unlawful possession of a firearm and was
sentenced to three years’ probation as part of the deal though he will get mental health and
substance abuse treatment. but for keenan lowe thank goodness you were there. absolutely. all
right.
KTVL (CBS)
Oct 21, 2019 • 6:12 PM

B_OCT_OREG_70

law enforcement suicide. a startling number die every year. tonight spotlight on america
reveals how two officers that hit rock bottom are helping others to survive. >> reporter: the
true blue golf course in south carolina is a world away from new york city streets. that is where
keith was a cop for 11 years. the day we caught up with him he was playing a round of golf with
another retired police officer, who knows firsthand what it's like to protect and serve at work.
and juggle life at home. >> we put that uniform and shield on , it is a barrier. whatever you are
going through at home you leave in the locker. >> reporter: being a cop is in his blood. his
father a career cop. but when the custody battle tore him apart , he hit rock bottom. he said he
drank too much and showed suicide notes that he wrote. he said his parents were too afraid to
call for help. >> they were afraid i was going to be fired. >> reporter: worries about a stigma are
calm and. listen to the spouse of a police officer who called 911 when her husband threatened
to kill himself. >> this is a death sentence to his career. >> reporter: the stigma of asking for
help has led to an alarming number of suicides. in three years there have been 647 reported
law enforcement suicides. hotspots nationwide light up the map. >> i have thought about it
myself. especially under the influence of alcohol. >> reporter: for years paul kept his secrets in
the shadow. that's why first responders are five times more likely to suffer from ptsd and
depression. >> i suppressed all of my feelings and emotions. >> reporter: he eventually clawed
his way out of alcoholism and got help. we found out that they won't pay workmen's
compensation ticket help. for keith that leaves too many police officers fending for themselves.
and suicide is a awful solution that is a temporary problem. he said he was saved by another
officer in his department. >> all jack wanted to do was talk. and he proved to me that i was not
alone. it there was hope. and he was going do everything he could to get me help. >> reporter:
he is speaking out so that other cops can get the same help before it is too late. >> if someone
you know in law enforcement is struggling. there is in an organization called blue help that is
ready to assist. you can find that link on ktvl.com.
KOBI
Oct 21, 2019 • 6:16 PM

B_OCT_OREG_71

now to the story of a high school football coach being heralded a hero... after saving a student's
life and demonstrating empathy in the face of fear. newly released surveillance video shows the
portland coach disarming a student with a shotgun...then hugging him. nbc's gadi schwartz has
more. it was a moment of life-saving humanity...and compassion, caught on camera. this is such
49

a, you know, a story that usually ends in tragedy keanon lowe - a football and track coach at
parkrose high school in portland, oregon is also a campus security guard. and this is him on
surveillance video taking a shotgun away from a student...then embracing him in a hug. after
the incident lowe spoke about what happenned...saying he was first called to the classroom to
check on a student making suicidal statements, when that very student walked in with a loaded
gun. sot keanon lowe - in a fraction of a second, i analyzed everything really fast.i saw the look
in his face, look in his eye, looked at the gun.i realized it was a real gun and then my instincts
just took over. the footage shows the moments right after. lowe, who's being hailed as a hero,
hands the gun to another staff member...and then embraces the boy...who hugs the coach right
back. sot keanon lowe - i felt compassion for the kid, to be honest/.i told i was there to save
him.i was there for a reason, and that you know that, this is a life worth living investigators say
the student - then-18-year old angel granados-diaz - did not plan to hurt other students or
staff...but say he was battling a mental health crisis and wanted to take his own life. sot keanon
lowe - it was a really emotional time/i felt compassion for him. and a lot of times, especially
when you're young, you don't realize what you doing until it's over the incident, which
happened in may, is now gaining new attention with the the video's recent release. the young
man's lawyer telling nbc news overnight: "although angel wanted to end his life that day, fate
had something else in store for him.he is now beginning the overwhelming process of adjusting
back to life in the community and receiving the treatment he needs.with the help of his family
and friends, and with the support of his community, he will look to do just that.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 21, 2019 • 12:06 PM

B_OCT_OREG_72

we have a follow up on a portland student arrested for bringing a shotgun to parkrose high
school. you may remember this story from back in may. we're now hearing from student's
lawyer. you may have seen this footage over the weekend. you can see angel grenados diaz
walking into high school with a shotgun hidden under something under his arms. confront its
diaz and takes the gun. another teacher grabs the weapon as low keeps a tight hold on the
student. we can see the two talking and hug there go in the hallway. police arrive a short time
later with guns drawn and they arrest the student. the 19-year-old never intentionally pointed a
gun at himself. he reefed three years pro paegs. >> the teen's tlour and receiving the treatment
he needs. this goes on to say with the help of his family and friends and with the support of his
community look to do just that. angel would like to thank mr. low, the parkrose high school
community and all those who have supported him throughout this process. we should take a
moment this afternoon to remind you or if someone you know is having thoughts of suicide call
the number on your screen. 1 (800) 273-8255.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 21, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_OCT_OREG_73

ken: we're getting a new look at the moment a coach at parkrose high school confronted a
student with a gun, and in crisis. newly released surveillance video shows the moment when
coach keanon lowe took a shotgun away from a student five months ago. angel granados-diaz
50

brought a gun to school back in may. he would later tell police that he had planned to complete
suicide, and the gun was loaded with a single round. coach lowe says when he saw the gun, his
instincts took over, and he wrestled it away from the student. after disarming him, the coach
gave granados-diaz a hug. >> he broke down and i just wanted to let him know that i was there
for him. i told him i was there to save them, i was there for a reason, and that this is a life worth
living. ken: this month, granados-diaz pleaded guilty to gun possession charges. he was
sentenced to three year’s probation and will receive mental health treatment.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 21, 2019 • 12:29 PM

B_OCT_OREG_74

we are hearing from the oregon high school coach who disarmed a student who reportedly
intended to kill himself. surveillance video then shows the coach embracing the teen. polo
sandoval reports. angel granados-diaz walked onto his northeast portland, oregon high school
campus back in may armed with a shotgun loaded with a single shell. this newly-released
surveillance video shows us what happened next. that's campus coach and security guard
keanon lowe encountering diaz at the entrance to a classroom... he grabs the gun with one
hand, and reaches for the crisis- stricken 19-year-old with the other. what follows was a
consoling hug and a conversation - allowing police time to respond and take control. coach
lowe has kept a relatively low profile for the last five months... only discussing that moment
publicly a few times including this interview with gma after it happened. keanon lowe/
disarmed student: "i feel like i was put in that room, in that moment for a reason, to protect
those kids ..i end up getting the gun from him. getting the gun with my right hand and holding
him off with my left hand and calling for a teacher to come grab the gun from me." the
surveillance video confirms accounts from witnesses and likely re-assures parents who had
feared the worst on that summer day. nats "by the grace of god nobody was hurt possession of
a firearm and was sentenced to three years probation. as part of the deal, he'll get mental
health and substance abuse treatment. in a statement, the deputy district attorney confirmed
diaz never intended to hurt anyone other than himself. the d-a's office also
determined the weapon did not fire when diaz pulled the trigger, giving a consoling coach time
to act.
B_OCT_OREG_75

KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 21, 2019 • 6:04 PM

take a look at this video that's been shared around the world. it shows that moment in may that
a student brought a gun into the classroom at parkrose high school and the moment a staff
member disarms him. >> we've been showing the video because it demonstrates just how a
moment of compassion can help save a life. devon haskins joins us. you spoke with crisis
interventions experts about what happened at parkrose in may. >> everyone i talked with
agrees mental health is a very important topic to talk about and that hug keanon lowe gave the
student may have just been what was needed to save a life. in this video from may 17th of this
year you can see the student walk into parkrose high school carrying a covered up loaded
shotgun in his arms. moments later security guard and football coach keanon lowe walks in
51

after him. >> get a call to go grab a student. i get 30, 40 calls every day to just grab random
students to take them down to the office. >> lowe spoke th media a few days after the incident.
>> pretty crazy situation. in the fraction of a second i analyzed everything really fast. i saw the
look in his face, look in his eyes, looked at the gun. i realized it was a real gun and my instinct is
just took over. >> in a remarkable and powerful move keanon lowe gives that student a hug and
stayed with him till police arrived. >> i told him i was there to save him. i was there for a reason
and that there is a life worth living. >> crisis intervention experts say what lowe did may have
saved his life in the future. >> i think for the student that was an opportunity to maybe put his
life in a completely different direction to know that he was loved and cared for. >> as part of his
plea deal for bringing a loaded weapon into a school, the student was sentenced to three years
probation and ongoing mental health treatment. >> treatment of mental health concerns and
awareness about them are the best steps for people to feel better and more able to achieve
their goals in society and so mental health treatment is really a great avenue for that. >> it's a
hug that saved not only one live but maybe others watching the video. >> it really helps people
come forward and speak about the concerns they have because they feel they might not be
shunned or stigmatized because of it. >> in a statement sent to kgw, the student's lawyer said
that his client is now beginning the process of adjusting back to life in the community and
receiving the treatment that he needs. >> we've been hearing from kind of what happened
there, what keanon lowe and this student went through. to see it on video is really remarkable.
>> it's something i think a lot of us have watched multiple times. >> if you are somebody who
would like to look at it, you can watch the full video on www.kgw.com and our mobile app. you
can find it on the kgw youtube channel. >>> we want to remind you if you or someone you
know is struggling, there is always sody avlable to talk to at the national suicide prevention
lifeline. the number is on your screen now, 1-800-273-8255.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Oct 21, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_76

the multnomah county sheriff's office says he was experiencing a mental health crisis. >> i said i
was there to save him. i was there for a reason. this is a life worth living. in a statement, the
attorney for diaz says he took the shotgun to park rose high school to harm himself and nobody
else. to it quote his own statement given to law enforcement. i didn't mean for any of this to
happen. i'm sorry for all of this. we wish to echo that sentiment. although he wanted to end his
life, fate had something else in store for him. e is now beginning the overwhelming process of
adjusting back to life in the community and receiving the treatment that he needs. earlier he
pleaded guilty to two charges and sentenced to three years' probation. it includes mental
health treatment.
KEPR (CBS)
Oct 21, 2019 • 5:18 PM

B_OCT_WASH_41

a new report shows a startling number of law enforcement officers die every year by suicide. it
also shows most officers are too afraid to get help . >> tonight spotlight on america reveals how
two officers who hit rock bottom are now helping others to survive. >> reporter: this place is
52

beautiful . >> the golf course in south dakota and a world away from new york city streets. that
is where keith was a cop for 11 years. >> reporter: the day we caught up with him, he was
playing a round with another retired police officer. who knows firsthand what it is like to
protect and serve at work.cand still juggat home . >> when you put the children, that uniform
on, and most acts as a reflective area. that whatever you are going to at home, you leave in
your locker. >> reporter: being a cop is in his blood. his father was a cop. when a custody battle
tore his life apart, he hit rock bottom. i was told to not bring your personal life to work. how do
not? truckee drank way too much and showed us suicide not written. even on his darkest day,
his parents were too afraid to call for help. >>> they were afraid that i would be fired and
everything would be taken away. >> reporter: worries about the stigma are common. listen to
the spouse if a police officer who called 911 and her husband threatened to kill himself. >>> this
is a death sentence to his career. >> reporter: he was stopped in time but the stigma of asking
for help has led to an alarming number of suicides. in the past three years alone, there have
been 647 reported law enforcement suicides. hotspots nationwide light of the map . >> i to
know two guys who took their own lives. i thought about it myself, especially under the
influence of alcohol. >> reporter: for years, one man kept the secret in the shuttles. >> we were
the guys who fixed everything. >> reporter: it is one of the reason why first responders are five
times more likely to suffer from ptsd and depression and civilians. >>> drake, it suppressed all
of my feelings and emotions. >> reporter: he would climb his way out of alcoholism and
eventually get help. we discovered that 34 states will not pay workmen's compensation or
officers who take time away from their jobs to get help. for keith, that leaves far too many cops
fending for themselves and suicide becomes an awful and permanent solution to what should
be temporary problems. he was saved by another officer in his department, who he called jack .
>> all jack wanted to do was talk. he proved to me that i was not alone. that there was hope
and he would do everything he could to get me help. >> reporter: he is now speaking out to so
the other struggling cops a crossed the country can get that same help before it is too late.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Oct 21, 2019 • 6:16 PM

B_OCT_WASH_42

that remarkable video, the coach disarming a student with a shotgun and then the emotional
embrace. now the district says that video should never have been released. here is blayne
alexander. >> reporter: it's a life-changing embrace from a potentially life-ending encounter.
19-year-old angle diaz came to his portland high school armed with a shotgun but officials say
there was only one round inside. his plan? to use it on himself. >> i saw the look in his face look
in his eyes, looked at the gun and realized it was a real gun. >> reporter: diaz turned the gun on
himself but it malfunctioned. the school district criticized the d.a.'s decision to release the
chilling video to the public showing students scrambling and coach keenan lowe jumping into
action. >> i lunged for the gun and put two hands on the gun and he had his two hands on the
gun. >> reporter: that's when lowe was able to take the shotgun in return, giving something
much more powerful. >> i told him i was there to save him i was there for a reason, and that
this is a life worth living. >> reporter: soon after police stormed in, the student who officials say
was battling a mental health crisis is now getting treatment. his attorney says although angel
wanted to end his life that day, fate had sething else in store for him. it was fate that brought
53

the coach to the school, a college football star turning to education because he wanted to
change lives and on this day, he may have saved one blayne alexander, nbc news.
AM 860
Oct 22, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_OCT_OREG_77

last Sunday a tear up when they watch a viral video shows a Portland high school coach in a
long hug with suicidal student who had a gun and was planning to shoot the coach prevented
the shooting last spring video of the intense long hug was just released and immediately went
viral down and let him know that I was there for him since he first tweeted out this video Friday
evening it has been viewed more than 5 million times around the world on my Twitter account
alone the vast majority of comments expressed how deeply people or move.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 22, 2019 • 6:43 PM

B_OCT_OREG_78

in spotlight on america we look at a startling trend, suicide amongst the law enforcement
community. how two officers who hit rock bottom are helping others to survive. >> the true
blue golf course in south carolina is a world away from new york city streets. that's where keith
mcextinguishing was a cop for 11 years. the day we caught up with him he was playing a round
with another retired police officer who knows firsthand what it's like to protect and serve at
work. >> drop the gun now! >> still have a life at home. >> when you put that shield on,that
uniform on, it almost acts as a deflective barrier. whatever you're going through at home you
leave in your locker. >> being a cop is in his blood. his father a career cop. but when a custody
battle tore his life apart he says he drank way too much and showed us suicide notes he had
written. even on his darkest days his parents were afraid to call for help. >> they were afraid i
would be fired. >> those worries are common. listen to the spouse of a police officer who called
911 when her husband threatened to kill himself. >> death sentence to his career. >> he was
stopped in time but the stigma of asking for help has led to an alarming number of suicides. in
the past three years alone there have been 647 reported law enforcement suicides. hot spots
nationwide light up the map. >> i know two guys that took their own lives. i thought about it
myself sometimes. especially under the influence of alcohol. >> for years detective paul
maloney kept his secret in the shadows. >> we see so much, we are the guys that fixed
everything. you didn't want to share that you were weak. >> it's one of the reasons why first
responders are five times more likely to suffer from ptsd and depression than civilians. >> we
went out and drank. i suppressed my feelings and emotions. >> he would eventually get help
but we discovered that 34 states won't pay workers' compensation for officers who take time
away from their jobs to get help. for keith that leaves far too many cops fending for themselves
and suicide becomes an awful and permanent solution to what should be temporary problems
he told us. mcextinguishing was saved by another officer in his department who called jack. >>
all jack wanted to do was talk. he proved to me that i wasn't alone. that there was hope. and
that he was going to do everything he could to get me help. >> now he's speaking out so that
other struggling cops across the country can get that same help before it's too late. >> a recent
study found nationwide more officers died by suicide in 2017 than died in the line of duty. 140
54

compared to 129. to help fight the problem locally oregon state senator lou frederic is cosponsoring two bills. one would require all law enforcement agencies in oregon to
psychologically evaluate applicants before they become officers and require the state to create
standards for those evaluations. the oregon association chiefs of police and the oregon state
sheriffs association supports the efforts. we reached out to portland police for comment, have
not heard back yet. >> experts say most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. you
can always call the national lifeline. or find out more information at
suicidepreventionlifeline.org.
KOBI
Oct 22, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_OCT_OREG_79

everyday ... somebody takes their own life. suicide doesn't just affect one group of people ... it
affects everyone. here in our community... and across the nation ... seniors are taking their lives
more often than anyone else. health officials say a lot of that is attributed to the feeling of
loneliness. nbc5's blakely mchugh explains why it doesn't have to be this way. "one lady told
me when her husband passed away she was kind of languishing around at home." its a common
story for many seniors... as they continue to age ... friends and loved ones start to pass away.
and often times that leaves people feeling lonely. " you have a smaller network of people to
interact with. And eventually it starts to deteriorate even more, as people pass away, or move
away, like i said, their health conditions, because they can't just be like they used to. and it gets
really lonely for folks, they start to that deterioration starts kind of compound on them." those
feelings can cause many to think about taking their own life. "we a lot of times think of youth
being at the highest risk, but it's actually a white males age 70 and over." seniors can face many
barriers when it comes to living life like they used to. some of those include - losing your drivers
license and not being able to go where you want to go. or having a broken down car ... and not
having the income to fix it. "but now they may have trouble driving, or their sibling or their
spouse used to do a lot of the care has died or moved away or something. and now they no
longer have access to the transportation, so they can't access some of these services, whether
it be mental health, physical health, that they might have been able to access before." and
living in southern oregon ... poses its own barriers. there are many rural areas that don't have
bus routes ... or a local senior center ... or even volunteer groups that pick up seniors and take
them where they need to go. And maybe you live in a more rural area that doesn't afford you
the opportunity to travel in and out of town like you may be used to when you were younger.
so a lot of people feel really isolated and lonely ." of course... theres no way to replace the
loved ones you've lost ... . but there are ways to get out there.. re socialize ... make new
friends... and find purpose in your life again. here are some ideas: visit your local senior center
"we ha ve all kins of card games and board games, we have a book club and writing club." "its a
good place to come, everybody is friendly and nice and its really a nice place to come." try to
find a way to give back ... even if you cant leave the house. "doing something for others, no
matter what it is crocheting hats, you know, to donate to the hospital. sign up to have meals
delivered to your home. even something as simple as meals on wheels that just kind of knocks
on their door, you know, at lunchtime every day, can be so impactful on a person's life. or reach
out to someone you haven't talked to in awhile... and if theres no one you feel you can call ...
55

theres people you can talk to about that.. like: the senior loneliness line at 503-200-1633 or
800-282-7035. experts say the key... is to turn the idea of hopelessness... into hopefulness. "its
sad, because it doesn't have to be that way, suicide is the number one most preventable cause
of death so, it's amazing. when people do get help, there's amazing transformations that
happen." if you feel like anything we've said here resonates with you ... we want to help. here
are some additional resources: if you have thoughts of minor depression ... see if the pearls
program is a good fit for you ...that number is 541-423-1363. find out if you're eligible for the
meals on wheels program or volunteer for it. you can also call r-v-cog seniors and disability
services at 541-664-6674. and if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800273-8255. you can also text the crisis line at 7-4-1-7-4-1.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 22, 2019 • 5:12 PM

B_OCT_WASH_43

the day before spring break, troy, the former principal at coeur d'alene high school took his
own life, leaving behind seprina, his son and daughter. 15:27:32we had a life that we really
loved and we all want that life back." :05in his death, she searched for answers and began
researching c-t-e, a brain disease caused by concussions. 15:28:41"i have no doubt that this all
started with this bus crash." troy was heading to a wrestling tournament in 2001 when the
driver suffered a heart attack. he ran to the front of the bus to take control when it hit a tree.
15:29:05"he had a whole month that he didn't remember at all." :03over the next 15 years,
there were two more concussions. troy's mood changed, and the headaches grew worse.
15:30:04"in his final note, that was one of the comments he made was that he had a headache
that just never went away." :03seprina has no doubt the bus crash slowly killed her husband.
she wasn't thinking about c-t-e at the time of his death -- and since troy was cremated -- there's
no way of proving he had the disease. 15:29:36 he just wasn't willing to take the time to take
care of himself because he had too many other people to take care of." :09troy's story is
personal. it's not an easy one to tell. but seprina says it needs to be. 15:34:52"i think we need
to remove the stigma behind asking for help, not feeling like you're weak." :015:38:58"if we
don't talk about these things and stay silent, nothing ever changes." :04 if you or a loved one is
having thoughts of suicide --recovery is possible -- there is help avaiable. the national suicide
prevention lifeline is on your screen, 1- 800-273-talk.
88.5 KNKX
Oct 22, 2019 • 7:30 PM

B_OCT_WASH_44

I spoke to duty for tips about this she's a sociology professor at Rutgers University from the
trade looking at him for safe because sick his youth she walk me through a couple of grouse
that showed the rate of suicide among many different age groups those rates vary widely from
the young and the very old increasingly however a middle-aged man appeared to be growing
risk we saw a family shop increase and suicide rates among men beginning 19 _ninety_ _nine_
so afraid Sompo I'm my own man aged 15 to 50 saw we saw an increase of almost 50% and
necessary the increase in the suicide rate among middle-aged man is struggling it's also a
56

question of historical patterns compared to one in generations the optic and suicide seems to
be studying a yard and earlier especially for men one common interpretation of this trend is
that it's driven by economic problems Judith things it's more complicated the trend of rising
suicide rates among middle-aged men began in the late 19 ninety's well before the great
recession that started in 2007 action from 1999 to 2005 the increases among women aged
really confined to those things as did not have A college education but since 2005 and is now
supporting that is really then across the bow I don't CDs differences by education judy has
other ideas about what might be driving these changes people have fewer social supports the
more likely to live far away from family many are opting out of marriage many I'm getting
divorced even when he chose to connect with other artists were often not doing it in person I
also want to just about the ways in which we we interact and and learn and how that has
changed so for the past 15 or 20 years is our new the rise of social media less face-to-face
contact our entertainment said the come up private it's nearly what to feed come out then kind
of diffuse effects com also and that that may also be having me and should be more to the
feelings of isolation social isolation could also be producing some of these rising rates again the
told social isolation isn't just emotional an analysis of nearly 150 study has found that people
with strong social relationships had about 50% mortality risk than those with weaker ties
Julianne Hough constand and her co authors concluded that those with weaker so relationships
have a greater risk of death that people who are physically inactive or obese let me put it
another way spending time in building and nurturing your friendships might be just as
important your health as eating right and exercise when we come back we look at the cautious
approach to this problem these sara no human beings with unbelievable all emotional and
social capacity and we as a culture just completely try zip out of them and you know it stay with
us this isn't P.R.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Oct 22, 2019 • 11:30 PM

B_OCT_WASH_45

I think this moment demands that that we say things that are true and see things clearly an act
decisively and on guns if we're going to avert the 40000 gun deaths Yes suicides are a big
problem I think universal background checks extreme risk protection orders can go a long way
towards reducing gun suicide raising the age to purchase from 18 to 21 will go a long way to
reducing gun suicide in this country but when you get to these acts of terror they are being
committed when you understand that a White nationalist White supremacist terror is the
number one domestic law enforcement challenge right now.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Oct 22, 2019 • 10:30 PM

B_OCT_WASH_46

I spoke to Judy for tips about this she's a sociology professor at Rutgers University from the
trade looking at half FIFA Pence ticket to a she walk me through a couple of us that showed the
rate of suicide among men of different age groups those rates vary widely from the young and
the very old increasingly however are middle-aged men appear to be growing risk is a family
show up increase and suicide rates among men on beginning 19 _ninety_ _nine_ so afraid
57

Sompo among men aged 15 to 50 saw we saw an increase of almost 50% in this suicide rate the
increase in the suicide rate among middle-aged man is struggling it's also a question of
historical patterns compact generations the optic and suicide seems to be studying a yard and
earlier especially for men one common interpretation of this trend is that it's driven by
economic problems you anything it's more complicated the trend of rising suicide rates among
middle-aged men began in the late 19 ninety's well before the great recession that started in
2007 action from 1999 to 2005 the increases among women aged really confined to those on
the list did not have a college education.
KEZI (ABC)
Oct 22, 2019 • 5:10 PM

B_OCT_OREG_80

in tonight's project safe family: in this video from may -- you can see the student walk into
parkrose high school -- with a covered up loaded shotgun in his arms. moments later -- security
guard and football coach keanan lowe walks in after him. you can see lowe hand over the gun..
and... then he hugged the student and stayed with him until police showed up. crisis
intervention experts say not only did lowe's actions likely help that student.. it could have an
impact on others who saw the video... who might be embarrassed about needing help. it really
helps people to come forward and speak about the concerns they have because they feel they
might not be shunned or stigmatized because of it. //stitch i told him i was there to save him, i
was there for a reason, and this is a life worth living. as part of his plea deal for bringing a
loaded weapon into a school -- the student was sentenced to three years probation and
ongoing mental health treatment. his lawyer says he's starting to adjust back to life in the
community.. and getting the treatment he needs. if you're struggling... or know somebody who
is -- there is always somebody available to talk at the national suicide prevention lifeline. the
number is 1-800-273-8255.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 22, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_OCT_WASH_47

discussing suicide can be difficult. yet, our friends, family and children may be dealing with
thoughts of hopelessness every single day. it's a harsh reality-- suicide is the second leading
cause of death among teens and young adults in the united states is suicide. new at six-30 our
maher kawash dives into the conversation with how you can discuss it with your loved ones.
there really isn't an age limit for this. there are kids as young as 10 years old killling themselves.
but the answer to this issue starts at home and it starts with a conversation. in january of 2018
the tragic suicide of tyler hilinski started a conversation around spokane. the pain the w-s-u
football player endured and the pain his family felt after he was gone. but they weren't alone in
that pain. in 2017, 318 kids between 10 to 17 years old attempted or committed suicide right
here in spokane county. and even if we don't see it at the time, there's almost always a warning
sign. sabrina votava, president of fail safe for life 16;10;12"the vast majority of folks who die by
suicide do show some warning sign ... often times what happens is it's given to 1 or 2 or 3
people inside that person's life and then the rest of us are blindsided."11 sabrina votava is the
president of fail safe for life--a non-profit suicide prevention organization in spokane. but
58

votava herself was blindsided back in 2003 when her two brothers each committed suicide in
the span of just six months. nat pop 16;15;38"it doesn't ... it never leaves you" 02 16 years later
she says it still hurts. that pain doesn't go away, but the chance to hold a conversation with
someone else does. 16;08;50"just saying have you ever had thoughts of suicide or maybe do
you have any friends that are having thoughts of suicide or struggling right now ... and what's
been going on with them and i want you to know it's safe to come to me."12 spokane health
officials say about 32 percent of youth in the county felt sad or hopeless in 2017. about 19
percent seriously considered suicide-- and usually there's a common trend in those people.
16;14;26"but often times the themes are that a person is feeling disconnected, they don't feel
like they have a place where they truly belong they might not feel like they can be themselves
and be accepted."10 and with the holidays right around the corner, coping with the loss of a
loved one can be even harder. 16;17;51"it can be a really confusing difficult time and i will say
there is no right or wrong way to celebrate the holidays ... everybody does it differently, we find
that it's just a really important time for people to remember is up to you, it's personal ... and
there's no wrong way to do it."16 if you're grieving the loss of someone who took their own life,
you can join a support group that meets each tuesday. you can find that info on our website ...
and the suicide prevention line is also always open 1-800-273- 8255
KHQ (NBC)
Oct 23, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_48

when he came out of that house friends responded first... police say they tried to talk a suicidal
man out of ending his life... when it got too much for them... they called 911. that man was shot
by a spokane police officer just a short time after they arrived. khq's Patrick Erickson has been
on scene all afternoon... patrick... the sheriff's office and state patrol are investigating... exactly
what happened that led up to that fatal shot being fired. right now detectives are trying to
difure out what lead up to this shooting that left one man dead. around 1:30 this afternoon
police got a call of an armed suicidal man at a home here near garnet and ferrall. around 1:30
this afternoon police were investigating reports of a suicidal man armed with a gun in a home
bear garnet and ferrell. they were speaking with witnesses when that armed man appeared. an
officer told him to drop the gun and then man then turned around and pointed the gun at the
officer. that's when the officer fired his rifle. officers immediately began cpr until medics
pronounced him dead here at the scene. a gun was recovered near the body. i have confirmed
that the officer that fired was wearing a body camera and it was recording at the time of the
shooting. the officer who has not yet been named, has been placed on administrative leave
which is standard procedure. so far the identity of the man who was killed has not been
released. on cam anyone with information on the shooting is asked to contact the Spokane
County sheriff’s office.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Oct 23, 2019 • 4:45 PM

B_OCT_WASH_49

the new York city police department is announcing a new effort to get struggling officers the
help they need. this comes after a string of officers taking their own lives. the commissioner
59

says they are in a crisis and are hoping working with the world-renowned medical center will
help. >> this morning nypd commissioner jimmy o'neil and new york mayor announcing a brand
new mental health program for the nation's largest police force. confidentl and no cost
counseling, even medication if needed. >> the biggest thing is it is anonymous, and it is at no
cost to the police officers and members of service. >> anonymous so any officer can call and it
won't be recorded there their file? >> no, it is not. they will maintain a data base. we will know
the number of people that go through the program that are availing themselves of help and
that is important. >> the program called finest care will cost the city up to $1 million for the first
18 >> a lot of times the biggest challenge is for officers to know it is okay to need help yourself.
you are also giving help to other people. you sometimes need help yourself. >> think about the
stress and the trauma they see everyday. you go to shooting scenes, murder scenes. we don't
really talk about it. >> a record ten active duty nypd officers have taken their lives this year.
double the rate of recent years. commissioner o'neil has called it a crisis. the sister of one
officer who took his life in june called avoidable. >> this was 100% preventable. he needed help.
they knew that. >> it is a tragedy that reaches far beyond new york. nationwide at least 184
officers have taken their own lives so far this year. other cities like chicago and houston began
offering anonymous free counselling in recent years. >> i don't think it is a little late. i think we
reacted immediately. everything we put in place, we didn't wait till last -- last week. this has
been an ongoing process throughout the year. anyone to have an expectation this would
happen? absolutely not. >> i am just wondering -- do you regret not doing something sooner? .
>> of course i do. ten officers killed themselves. how could i not regret that? i was a cop for a
long time. i know what they face each and everyday. to think i wouldn't regret it -- that is a little
unfair. >> this is a mission. whatever it takes, we are going to do it. >> relations between police
officers and the mayor have been tense. >> you continue to grand stand in the back of police
officers and show up when we are dead. >> they have accused the nypd of sidelining officers
who do seek counseling. >> stop destroy careers of cops. >> we are looking to help people. we
are looking to helpeo >> the families of officers who took their own lives gathered for a mass in
their honor. >> after the mass you brought them up on the alter. as i'm looking at them i'm
thinking think about how each and everyone of those people are suffering. >> we just know
some one will see this and it is going to inspire them to seek help. >> yeah. >> if it was even one
person, it was even worth it. >> yeah. >> i really appreciate all the conversations different
agencies are having. realizing these are the people on the front lines. we need to take care of
them. it is like you are tough, take care of yourself.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 23, 2019 • 5:57 PM

B_OCT_WASH_50

police shoot and kill a man in northeast spokane.it happened near esmerelda golf course-- close
to cooper elementary school.4 news now was the first on scene and our crew is still out there
right now spokane police say this all started when a neighbor reported an armed suicidal man.
police say the man had two firearms. his friends were able to get one away from him. witnesses
told police – it looked like the man was pointing his weapon towards them.police arrived soon
after and that's when the shooting happened. our nikki torres has all the information on this
breaking news story which you saw first on four news now. police told us this afternoon...
60

events happened very quickly -- in the matter of 20 to 30 minutes -- from the time the 911 call
was made to when police shot the man. spokane police said they saw the armed man... told
him to drop his weapon. he did not. and they say it looked like he was in a shooting position that's when a police officer fired. it happened in the neighborhood on garnet and thor street.. i
spoke with several neighbors in the area and each one of them tell me, it's a relatively safe and
quiet neighborhood. there are a number of families who live around here, and the most crime
action they get is drivers speeding down the street. i talked with one man who was just here on
a job -- he was delivering new cabinets to a woman's home -- and that's when he saw an officer
just fifteen feet away armed with a rifle.
KREM (CBS)
Oct 23, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_51

Spokane police say they were responding ls oa suicidal man with a gun when suddenly that man
pointed a gun at officers? he was then shot and killed by police. it happened in the hilliard
neighborhood this afternoon about a block north of cooper elementary school. police say they
first saw the suspect walk out of a house with a gun. they say the suspect pointed the gun to
the west potentially towards a person. but when officers yelled at him to drop the weapon they
say he turned and pointed his gun at police. investigators say the officer on scene then fired at
least two rounds from a rifle. we've also learned that officer was wearing a body camera and
the camera was turned on. so it will be invaluable in the investigation. we'll be keeping a close
eye as this continues to develop we'll bring you the latest as it becomes available.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 23, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_52

four news now was first on the scene to a deadly shooting in northeast afternoon... when police
shot and killed a man near esmerelda golf course-- close to cooper elementary school.police say
the man originally had two firearms -- but his friends were able to take one away from
him.officers say someone in the neighborhood reported an armed suicidal man. witnesses told
police -- it looked like the man was pointing his weapon towards them. 00:45:29:00sot/kelly
maguire/witnessed shooting ("kind of shaken after the fact, because i was just here doing a job
and just didn't think anything of it. you know, normally 9/10, officers get their guns out just for
safety. but you never expect for them to actually shoot somebody.")the man was pronounced
dead at the scene. the shooting is still under investigation --police say the officer's body camera
was on and recording -- the officer and the man who was shot have not been identified yet.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 24, 2019 • 5:35 PM

B_OCT_WASH_53

a Spokane police officer shot and killed a person carrying a gun near a golf course police chief
Craig miles said police received a call from people trying to comfort a suicidal individual at
about one 30 yesterday afternoon the spokesman Review reports that within 30 minutes of the
call and officers saw a man exited residents The firearm in his hand I told him to drop it says a
61

person then turned to point a gun at the officer the officer fired at least two shots person was
pronounced dead at the scene.
B_OCT_OREG_81

KVAL (CBS)
Oct 24, 2019 • 6:05 PM

those contemplated suicide are welcome to get help tomorrow in cottage grove. it is operation
veteran freedom. >> reporter: more american veterans are dying by suicide. the rates are
soaring. the revised department of veterans affairs say 17 vets per day day by suicide in this
nation a.regional northwest program is trying to make a difference for the vets to give them
new hope. navy veteran mark airs said they should not have to relive trauma to get help. if you
can bring power and freedom to their life they feel like living. >> reporter: that's the goal of a
two day workshop of operation veteran freedom. >> know what it's like to feel hopeless and i
know what it's like to live life with hope. >> reporter: he say there is no meds involved, no
psychological treatment. it's using technology of brain science, helping the vets see their
problems in a new light. >> just imagine it's coaching. it's not content, not information. >> so
addressing what kind of problems vets are having? >> the past. okay. things happen in the past
and we carry it forward, those of us with ptsd, we have stories. >> reporter: sean is a vet that
under went back surgery and his meds triggered multiple brain disorders. >> gathering a few
veteran together has been able to have positive communication and we're able to speak to
each other in that manner. >> reporter: workshops are friday and saturday at 8:30. those
sessions are free to vets and family members. registration is required. go to kval.com to find the
lynn toccoa register to go.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 24, 2019 • 5:22 PM

B_OCT_OREG_82

developing now... a man from weed california is fighting for his life with burns covering 70percent of his body. this started saturday when police responded to reports of a suicidal man
attempting to light himself on fire. 47-year-old paul jason hall doused himself in a flammable
liquid. and after police arrived, a confrontation took place and an officer fired a stun gun at him.
hall caught on fire and the officer suffered burns as well. the officer hasn't been identified and
his condition is unknown. police in weed declined comment because of the ongoing
investigation.
KMTR (NBC)
Oct 24, 2019 • 5:04 PM

B_OCT_OREG_83

Oregon veterans going through trauma or contemplating suicide are invited to workshop
tomorrow and Saturday in cottage grove. the all-day workshops are sponsored by the national
alliance to end veteran suicide , a navy veteran said he faced everything from road rates to ptsd
to fear of even stepping out of his house. he claims other therapies did not help. operation:
veteran freedom has free workshops that are set up for tomorrow and Saturday at the odd
fellow’s hall in cottage grove. mark ayers says the program is for all veterans going through
62

trauma from all areas to help the vets reach breakthroughs. >> just imagine it's coaching. it's
not content. it is not information. it is coaching, and good coaching brings out what, the best in
people. >> gathering a few veterans together, he's able to have positive communication, and
we are able to speak to each other and that a manner. >> there is no cost to veterans and their
families to attend, but preregistration is required. operation: veteran freedom programs begin
at 8:30 friday and saturday mornings.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 24, 2019 • 6:53 AM

B_OCT_WASH_54

investigators are trying to piece together what led police to shoot and kill a man yesterday,
near esmerelda golf course. two people who knew the man called 9-1-1 saying he was suicidal...
and had two guns. those friends got one of the guns away from him... but when officers arrived,
police say the man came out of his house still holding one of them. officers ordered him to drop
it... but he did not. according to police... the man turned toward an officer with the gun
pointed... the officer then fired, killing the man.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Oct 24, 2019 • 9:42 PM

B_OCT_OREG_84

i'm here tonight because -- we told you about osha international, we're proud to be honored by
them with their mental health champion award at the celebration of hope. genevieve shows us
how the organization works with schools to help struggling teens. >> it says i'm fine, one
direction. upside down it says save me. >> reporter: she's talking to a health class about her
tattoo. its uniqueness resonates with a lot of people. >> within the week it went international.
>> reporter: in the summer of 015 she shared a photo of it on facebook alongside a profession
of pain. >> i don't know why i feel so worthless, when i know i should feel happy. >> reporter:
with 36 # oh -- 360,000 shares and counting, many remember her story. >> it just captured my
depression perfectly. >> reporter: but inside the classroom her story really isn't about her. >>
that's why we're here today, we want to share our stories and put a face to mental health. >>
reporter: it's about shattering the stigma and saving lives. >> it was just so debilitating and i
didn't know what to do, that when i was 13 i tried to kill myself. >> reporter: the students hear
from puts spell peers, they provide context on mental illness, from destructive depression and
cultural challenges, similar to the ones the founder dealt with -- >> it's all about the honor in my
culture. that i had dishonored them publicly by being mentally ill. >> reporter: to the manic
moments of bipolar disorder. >> i thought the songs on the right were talking about me.it is a
lot of work to get to a place of peace, but it is worth it and you can do it. >> reporter: to be that
beacon of hope. >> you're not alone in what you're feeling. >> anchor: by the way, asha means
hope in some ancient languages. genevieve is also emceeing the event tonight. remember,
experts say most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. if you need someone to talk
to, you can call the national life line, or get more information on immediate resources online at
suicide prevention life line.org.

63

B_OCT_OREG_85

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Oct 25, 2019 • 8:25 AM

it's a good day to be alive after losing a loved one to suicide -- two local sisters are now working
together to help áyouá find the mental health services you need. they developed an app called
"your wayve" and they hope to have it up and running in the next few months. fox 12's kelsey
watts shows us how it will work. --ll introthis concept really came out of a heartbreaking loss.so
many people need access to mental healthcare but most of us have no idea where to
start.that's exactly where leslie abraham and her family found themselves almost 10 years ago.-pkg(cover) 06:21 "he was a friend to everybody, he really just lit up a room."scott boxell was
full of love and life.(cover) 13:05 "one of the things i'll never forget about him is what a good
dad he was."a dedicated husband and father with a passion for sports he was a high school
coach and counselorwhen he had an onset of mental illness.his wife, leslie, says it was very
difficult trying to determine what their health insurance would cover which providers were
taking new patients and what kind of treatment they should be pursuing.03:35 "we just felt
lost." stitch to 01:13 "we spent about six months trying to navigate the mental health system."
(stephanie kirsling/scott's sister-in-law) 07:43 "one of the things leslie says often is they were in
a race against time and time ran out."on october 29th, 2009 when leslie was six months
pregnant with their second child scott took his own life.(leslie abraham/scott's wife) 05:05 "it
was excruciatingly hard and painful, not only because i lost my spouse but i lost him to suicide
and the stigma surrounding suicide is just wrapped up in so much shame, i felt buried by
it."through that experience his wife and sister-in-law developed an app called "yourwayve"
designed to simplify the process for people who need mental health services.it's not live just
yet but they showed us how it works.you plug in the symptoms you or a loved one are
experiencing nats @ 17:08 "suicidal thoughts, self-harm, trouble sleeping."and you're matched
with a list of providers who can help based on factors like your insurance, locationpersonal
characterictics, like whether you want a doctor who is a good listenor or has a sense of
humor.21:11 "it really does matter, especially with mental health, that you are with someone
that you trust and can relate to." you'll also be able to book an appointment right from the app
a resource they hope will save lives in the future.--ll tag right now, they're working on more
funding and research and they hope to partner with a health plan to officially launch the app
sometime in the next six months.to learn more, we'll have their website for you in this story at
kptv dot com.kelsey watts, f12o. as part of fox 12's "better together" initiative -- we would like
to remind you that if you or someone you know needs help -- there are people out there who
are ready to listen. for more information about resources -- head to our website at kptv dotcom slash "better together."
KEPR (CBS)
Oct 25, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_55

the corners office released the identity of the man who died after being hit by a train.
authorities say the 59-year-old died at the scene. the incident happened just after 5 pm last

64

night. a few months. the railroad crossing sign and armed guards were functioning at the time
of the accident. the coroner has ruled his death a suicide.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Oct 25, 2019 • 6:05 AM

B_OCT_OREG_86

the Washington county mall wants you to keep an eye out for erin mcclintock. she dropped off
two of her sons and hasn't been seen since. her supervisor got worried when she didn't show
up for work and her red kia sol was parked outside of the aquatic center. the family says it's
strange for her to be out of touch for so long. but, one of her sons says something was wrong.
>> she is usually welcoming, happy and calming, but for the past week, it was the exact
opposite of that. >> investigators don't believe mcclintock is suicidal or battling mental illness.
they don't suspect foul play. if you have seen her or have any information, call the washington
county sheriff's office. it's 503-629-0111.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Oct 26, 2019 • 8:30 AM

B_OCT_OREG_87

Mike Keenan this is bill larson he's a retired state Patrol captain who was brought in last year to
run the show land County Jail Wenatchee Washington he says he found an overcrowded and
understaffed jail where inmates regularly manufactured alcohol consumed drugs and assaulted
each other and then there were the suicide attempts not an everyday occurrence but it's not
extremely rare eager inmates will cash in some kind of a newsstand trying to hang themselves
in 2017 an army veteran named Jeremy lavender died by suicide initial land County jail sense
that Larsen said his staff his save the lives of a number of suicidal inmates but he worries about
another death comfortable saying that it's you know not matter it matters when larson has
requested more staff is making changes to how the jail operates ultimately though he believe
Schwan County will have to build a new facility if they want to make the jail safe for inmates
and staff but there's a lot of opposition to building jails and Murray from hoppers active in jail
politics in Spokane County where 8 inmates died in 14 months she says on the one hand jails
can make the public safer on the other harm can come to the people inside them see you really
have this friction between public safety versus individual welfare fraud Hoffer believes it's
possible result of that friction by focusing more broadly un ending mass incarceration she says
that means increasing access to jail diversion programs and addressing the fact people in jail
often can't afford bail and for those who do need to be locked up we're looking at but as
opposed to mass incarceration facility look like here from Hoffer borrows an image from of
fellow activist imagine jail she says with more classrooms themselves back in Mason County
chief deputy Kevin Hanson says he's all for more diversion and more programming in the tail to
help people while they're locked up bases the lack of space in his jail is putting the public at risk
the biggest problem is the people that should be arrested during an arrest is no room but we
are dealing with what we have Pence says there's now talk of building a new regional jail with
neighboring Grays Harbor County but it's not clear yet if the idea is feasible or whether people
in those counties will be willing to pay for it

65

KREM (CBS)
Oct 26, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_OCT_WASH_56

And now to a developing story earlier this week we reported a spokane police officer shot and
killed a suicidal man after he allegedly pointed a gun at the officer. the spokane county medical
examiner identified that man as 61-year-old david schafer. autopsy results showed he died
from two gunshot wounds to his torso. they also determined that the death was a homicide not
a suicide.
KREM (CBS)
Oct 26, 2019 • 5:11 PM

B_OCT_WASH_57

now to a developing story earlier this week we reported a spokane police officer shot and killed
a suicidal man after he allegedly pointed a gun at the officer the spokane county medical
examiner identified that man as sixty-one-year-old david schafer. autopsy results showed he
died from two gunshot wounds to his torso. they also determined that the man's death was a
homicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 26, 2019 • 7:04 AM

B_OCT_OREG_88

senior director of government solutions at clear force which is a risk management firm in
virginia we talk about how to identify and prevent suicide among veterans got some 30 plus
years with the Marines the thing I worry about would be engaging say with the civilian who
who genuinely cares but does not have the same credibility in the eyes of veteran who has seen
perhaps horrific things maybe in Iraq or Afghanistan right Yeah what what credibility why bring
when I say I like helping the soldier and and brass really so you have no idea what I'm going
through who you might not be the perfect person to put down an easy conversation with but I
would absolutely be the first one Hunter could be someone that work under him and allen and
Mike Peters in a bit of a different tone to it okay have a conversation.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Oct 26, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_OCT_WASH_58

duthier: an innovative program is offering an alternative to police responding to mental health
emergencies. nearly four million people with severe mental illness go untreated in the u.s.
they're 16 times more likely to be killed in an encounter with police. omar villafranca shows us
how one city is trying to change that. >> reporter: when a mental health-related 911 call comes
in, a specialized team in eugene, oregon, rolls out. >> pretty much everybody we see is, for one
reason or another, in a state of crisis. >> reporter: manny walker is a medic, and laurel lisovskis
is a mental health crisis manager. the pair are members of cahoots-- crisis assistance helping
out on the streets. they answer calls, like suicide interventions and overdoses. they're unarmed,
and most of the time, without police backup. >> we always move as a team. whoever is talking
and making contact, the other person is... >> reporter: their eyes and ear. they took our cbs
66

crew on an exclusive ride-along. their first call was for a woman they'd met before.
schizophrenic. they believe she's she told us her name was kayla. would you rather deal with
someone with cahoots or, like, a uniformed police officer? >> definitely cahoots. >> reporter:
how come? >> they, like, help me when you're in a time of need or when you're hungry or
certain things like that. >> reporter: cahoots was founded in 1989. last year, they responded to
nearly 23,000 calls in eugene and springfield, oregon. denver is starting their own version of
cahoots. city leaders from oakland, olympia, washington; and even new york city are all
considering similar pilot programs. tim black is cahoots' operation coordinator. >> we handle
almost 20% of the entire external public safety call volume-- >> a fifth. >> for our area. but
there was such a dramatic need coming in through the 911 and nonemergency lines, that there
was a need for there to be this kind of behavioral health first responsibility. >> let them know
that you're out of your meds. >> reporter: cahoots team members are trained to de-escalate
when responding to a mailing crisis. >> thank you guys so much. >> reporter: a recent study
found 25% to 50% of fatal officer-involved shootings involve someone with a severe mental
illness. eugene's police chief chris skinner. >> they don't need jail. what they need to be deescalated from their crise, a ride to a medical care facility or to a medical care facility, or
wrapped around with services. that's what the people need. they don't need to be going to jail
every time. >> reporter: a new way to protect and serve, and maybe save a life. >> take care. >>
reporter: omar villafranca, cbs news, eugene, oregon. >> duthier: for immediate help, if you are
in a crisis, you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline any time at 1-800-273-8255.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 28, 2019 • 12:20 PM

B_OCT_OREG_89

Instagram will block posts about suicide, after facing pressure to stop showing graphic content.
it all started earlier this year, when British teen molly Russell killed herself after looking at
harmful posts. her father blamed his daughter's death on Instagram, saying the social media
platform doesn't prevent teens from viewing harmful content. a public outcry ensued, and
Instagram reduced suicidal posts. but yesterday Instagram took further steps to keep users
safe. it plans to ban renderings, drawings, and memes that show suicide or any other self-harm.
accounts that share graphic content also won't be recommended. the company says so far, it
has reduced the visibility of more than 8-hundred-and-30-thous and pieces of harmful content.
a public outcry ensued and Instagram reduced suicidal posts. Instagram plans to ban
renderings, drawings, and memes that show suicide or any other self-harm. accounts that share
graphic content also won't be recommended. the facebook- owned company says users can
post their stories of recovery, which can help some people.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 28, 2019 • 6:37 PM

B_OCT_WASH_59

Pediatricians are slow to talk about gun safety with their patients' families. that's according to a
new study published Monday in jama pediatrics. researchers found doctors were more likely to
bring up smoke alarm safety. health records from an academic pediatric care clinic were
analyzed from between January 20-17 and July 20-18. this research is significant due to the rate
67

of suicide in the u-s by firearms. according to the paper, that figure has increased since 2008 for
people between 10 and 19 years old. the study also says that four-point-six million u-s children
live in a home with at least one loaded and unlocked gun.
KXLY (ABC)
Oct 28, 2019 • 5:42 PM

B_OCT_WASH_60

next to the former boston college student charged with involuntary manslaughter tonight in
her boyfriend's suicide. prosecutors say call it unrelenting adduce, sending him 47,000 text
messages, including messages like go die and go kill yourself. he did take his own life, 90
minutes before his graduation. here's eva pilgrim. >> reporter: the girlfriend of a former boston
college student tonight charged with involuntary manslaughter after a grand jury found she
encouraged alexander urtula to take his own life. >> ms. you made demands and threats with
the understanding that she had complete and total control over mr. urtula, both mentally and
emotionally. >> reporter: prosecutors say fellow student inyoung you was physically, verbally,
and psychologically abusive, sending thousands of texts, some urging him to quote, go kill
himself. go die. >> in the 47,000 text messages, yes, there were many, many instances where
she instructed him to do so. >> reporter: just 90 minutes before urtula's graduation from
boston college in may, authorities say his girlfriend allegedly tracked him through his phone to
a parking garage and was there when he leapt to his death. >> ms. carter will now be taken into
custody. >> reporter: the allegations echoing the case against michelle carter, the young
woman convicted of involuntary manslaughter after sending hundreds of texts urging her
boyfriend to act on his suicidal thoughts. what complicates this case, david, is that the young
woman is back home in south korea. prosecutors are cautiously optimistic she'll return, but if
she doesn't, they say there are a number of ways to extradite her back. david? >> eva pilgrim
reporting tonight. thank you. >>> and new fears for a missing 14-year-old girl from virginia.
authorities saying she's in extreme danger with a direct appeal now to the suspect. here's linsey
davis. >> reporter: the desperate search for 14-year-old isabel hicks is now a nationwide amber
alert. >> she is in the company of an individual that has been reported by his family to have
some suicidal ideations and he is in possession of a 9-millimeter handgun. >> reporter: police
saying the eighth grader vanished from her bumpass, virginia, home a week ago with 34-yearold bruce lynch and could be in extreme danger. tonight the fbi is urging lynch to do the right
thing. >> you know isabel should be home safe with her family. warm, rested, protected. i'm
sure you want what's best for her. please return isabel to a safe location or contact us. >>
reporter: authorities are asking the public to look for clues like a missing rear passenger door
handle on lynch's blue 2003 toyota matrix, and a camouflage tarp that might be covering the
passenger window. david, authorities believe lynch is traveling with camping gear. and they
have received tips from multiple states including one sighting of a vehicle matching the
description of the one they believe he's traveling in. david? >> lindsey davis, thank you.

KTVL (CBS)
Oct 28, 2019 • 5:45 PM

B_OCT_OREG_90

68

O’Donnell: today in Boston, prosecutors charged a young woman from South Korea with
manslaughter in her boyfriend's death. alexander urtula took his own life last spring. his college
girlfriend is accused of bullying him into it. here's mola lenghi. >> reporter: Suffolk county
district attorney rachael rollins described in detail why 21-year-old inyoung you was indicted in
the death of her boyfriend, alexander urtula. >> she persisted, continuing to encourage him to
take his own life. >> reporter: both were students at boston college. on his graduation day last
may, she was with urtula on a parking garage roof when he took his own life. according to the
prosecutors, in the two months leading up to his suicide, you sent more than 47,000 texts with
repeated emotionally abusive messages telling him to go kill himself, to go die, and that the
world would be better off without him. it was just two years ago when another massachusetts
woman, michelle carter, was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter in the death of her
boyfriend. she was also accused of using text messages to pressure conrad roy to commit
suicide. cbs news legal analyst rikki klieman says the case against ms. you may be harder to try.
>> there is a break, because she might be texting him, but then she goes to the place where he
commits suicide. we don't know what happened there. >> reporter: you is currently in south
korea. now, the district attorney's office here says they're hoping she turns herself in
voluntarily, but if not, they will seek her extradition back to the united states to face that
involuntary manslaughter charge, norah. >> o'donnell: such a disturbing story, mola. thank you.
KVAL (CBS)
Oct 28, 2019 • 9:16 PM

B_OCT_OREG_91

law enforcement suicide come the startling number of officers dying every year to afraid to get
help. >>> spotlight on worker tells held two officers who hit rock bottom can help others to
survive. drum at the golf course in south carolina is a world away from new york city streets.
that's where keith mcgurk was a cop for 11 years. the day we caught up with him he was
playing around with another retired police officer. who knows firsthand what it's like to protect
and serve at work. and still took a life at home. >> when you put that uniform on it almost acts
like a barrier that whatever you are going through at home you leave in your locker. >>
reporter: being a cop is in his blood, his father a career cop but when it custody battle tore his
life apart he hit rock bottom. >> >> reporter: he says he drank way too much and showed up
suicide notes he drank even on the starkest day his parents were too afraid to call for help. >>
they were afraid i was going to be fired. >> reporter: worries about the stigma are common.
listen to the spouse of a police officer who called 911 when her husband threatened to kill
himself. >> it's like a death sentence to his career. >>reporter: he was stopped in time but the
stigma of asking for help has led to an alarming number of suicides. in the last three years there
for 647 reported law enforcement suicide. hotspots nationwide atop the map. >> i know two
guys who took their own lives. i thought about it myself sometimes especially under the
influence of alcohol. >> paul maloney kept a secret in the shadows. >> we see so much. we
were the guys who fixed everything. >> reporter: it's one of the reasons why first responders
are five times more likely to suffer from ptsd and depression than civilians. >> we went out and
drank. and suppressed all my feelings. >> reporter: he would climb his way out of alcoholism
and eventually get help but we discovered that 34 states won't pay workmen's compensation
69

for officers who take time away from their job to get help. that leaves far too many cops
spending for themselves and suicide becomes an awful and prominent solution to what should
be temporary problems he told us. mcgurk was saved by another officer in his department so
he called jack.'s from all jack wanted to do was talk. he proved to me that night that i wasn't
alone. that there was hope and he was going to do everything he could to get me help.
>>reporter:.he is speaking out to others struggling cops across the country can get that same
help before it's too late. for spotlight on america, i'm in emerson. >>> if you or someone you
know in law enforcement is juggling an organization called blue help is ready to assist for their
quick to visit kval.com.
KMTR (NBC)
Oct 28, 2019 • 6:13 PM

B_OCT_OREG_92

news about the deadly shooting at a homecoming party in texas police arrting a suspect for the
rampage that left two dead and 12 others injured near texas a&m university commerce police
say they don't know the motive at this time. >>> and a disturbing case in massachusetts, a
former boston college student charged with involuntary manslaughter after authorities say she
drove her boyfriend to suicide nbc's stephanie gosk on what she was texting him. >> reporter:
massachusetts prosecutors say a former boston college student repeatedly sent the same
messages to her boyfriend alexander -- go kill yourself and go die. >> she was aware of his
spiraling depression and suicidal thoughts brought on by her abuse, yet, she persisted
continuing to encourage him to take his own life. >> reporter: on the morning ofter: on the his
graduation, according to the d.a., yu tracked his phone to a parking garage where the college
senior took his own life. >> she went to the garage and, in fact, was present when he jumped to
his death. >> reporter: yu who is at home in south korea is charged with involuntarily
manslaughter prosecutors say family and friends knew she abused urtula physically and
psychological, including, the d.a. says, 75,000 texts shared between the couple in the tw
months leading up to urtula's suicide averaging more than 1,200 a day. the case reminding
many of michelle carter, currently serving 15-month sentence for urging her boyfriend conrad
roy to take his life convincing him to return to a carbon monoxide-filled car even though he was
rethinking suicide. his sister's tearful plea for a tough sentence >> not a day goes by without
him being my first thought waking up and last thought going to bed. >> reporter: the d.a.
acknowledged there are similarities in the cases hoping yu will voluntarily return from south
korea to face the charges. if not, authorities will pursue extradition. news new york. stephanie
gosk, nbc news new york.
KDRV (ABC)
Oct 28, 2019 • 4:33 PM

B_OCT_OREG_93

Instagram will block posts about suicide. this comes after facing pressure to stop showing
graphic content. it all started earlier this year -- when British teen molly Russell killed herself
after looking at harmful posts. her father blamed his daughter's death on Instagram -- saying
the social media platform doesn't prevent teens from viewing harmful content. a public outcry
ensued and Instagram reduced suicidal posts. but yesterday Instagram took further steps to
70

keep users safe. it plans to ban renderings, drawings, and memes that show suicide or any
other self-harm. accounts that share graphic content also won't be recommended. the
company says so far, it has reduced the visibility of more than 8-hundred-and-30-thous and
pieces of harmful content. the Facebook-owned company says users can post their stories of
recovery -- which can help some people. but those can also be harmful and triggering to others.
if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts -- there is help. you can call the
national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen now and you can also find
that and other resources on our website -- kdrv-dot-com.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 28, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_OCT_WASH_61

A former Boston college student has been indicted in the suicide of way for 22 year-old
Alexander to his death from the top of a parking garage may 20th hours before his schedule
Boston college graduation district attorney Rachel ron says 21 year-old girlfriend in young you
of South Korea was physically verbally and psychologically abusive and the couple exchanged
75000 text messages in the two months before the suicide abuse was witnessed by family and
classmates of both parties and documented what D.A. his girlfriend's threats indicate she knew
were too low was depressed and urged him to kill himself.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Oct 29, 2019 • 9:10 AM

B_OCT_WASH_62

a former Boston college student is facing charges for allegedly encouraging her boyfriend take
his own life this you move made demands and threats with the understanding that she had
complete and total control over Mr. virtual both mentally and emotionally prosecutors say 21
year-old & Young Yoo was physically verbally and psychologically abusive to her boyfriend
Alexander her to look during the couple's 18 month long relationship according to authorities a
much of that documented in their phones including some 75000 text between them in just two
months more than 47000 of them from her some urging him to quote go kill himself go died
and thousands of eyes hundreds of times certainly in the 47000 text messages Yes there were
many many instances where she instructed him to do so just 90 minutes before to his
graduation from Boston College in the day he came to this parking Garage to save his life
authorities say he was not alone this us tracking Mr. toll was location she frequently did on her
phone she went to the garage and in fact was present when Mr. truly jumped to his death in
young you know facing charges for involuntary manslaughter these allegations and going
another Massachusetts case for connor Cook guilty finding haven't ended in 2017 Michelle
carter was convicted of involuntary manslaughter after sending hundreds of texts her boyfriend
Conrad Roy encouraging him to take his life ultimately he did carter is now serving 15 months in
prison I kind of gave in this new cases that the young woman now charged with Zach is not
currently in the U.S. right now she's back home in South Korea prosecutors say they're
cautiously optimistic so return but if she doesn't they say there are a number of ways to
extradite her back

71

KVAL (CBS)
Oct 29, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_OCT_OREG_94

officials say a student died by suicide. they say he died on the day of his graduation ceremony.
prosecutors say his girlfriend, the 21-year-old was physically, verbally and psychologically
abusive during their relationship and was there when he died. the district attorney says she told
him to kill himself hundreds of times in the more than hundred 47 thousand text messages. >>
the investigation revealed she used threats to control him. it also found that she was aware of
his spiraling depression and suicidal thoughts brought on by her abuse, yet she persisted,
continuing to encourage him to take his own life. truck the da said she is currently in south
korea. she said she is cautiously optimistic she will return to the u.s. voluntarily. the di is
working with lawyers to coordinate an arraignment.
B_OCT_OREG_95

KEZI (ABC)
Oct 29, 2019 • 11:20 AM

Instagram will block posts about suicide, after facing pressure to stop showing graphic content.
it all started earlier this year, when british teen molly russell killed herself after looking at
harmful posts. her father blamed Instagram, saying the social media platform doesn't prevent
teens from viewing harmful content. Instagram plans to ban renderings, drawings, and memes
that show suicide or any other self-harm.
FM News 101 KXL
Oct 29, 2019 • 11:06 PM

B_OCT_OREG_96

I think maybe saw this this boston college student is being charged for allegedly urging her
boyfriend commit suicide Yes he did Yes and he was going to be graduating from Boston College
the day he jump from the parking deck and killed himself Yes and so the girlfriend in young you
who is 21 she's in South Korea is still there but the authorities think she's going to come back
I'm has been charged for urging him to commit suicide and the district attorney said and if we
have the power to get her back that you know okay you exactly what happened well apparently
the girlfriend do that this guy had suicidal thoughts and over the course of two months there
were 75000 texts 40000 all right josh urging him to take his own life and then as time went on
they became more frequent powerful and demeaning even though she knew about his spiraling
depression so as I read the story it says the texts allegedly included repeated messages for this
guy Alexander to kill himself and quote go die and the world would be better off without and I
don't know you I don't have hbo maybe you guys saw this documentary of a case that was
similar to this a couple years ago with Michelle carter and death of her boyfriend Conrad
Reuters third so was HBO documentary I love you now die because But while versus Michelle
carter and that she was telling him you need to take action and that story they were both
oppressed she ended up what she's now serving 15 months and her recent request for parole
was rejected but the D.A. in this story says it's different in that this is a barrage of completed
under attack on this guy's very willing conscious and psyche by an individual to the tune of
40000 text messages and two months leading up to a G said she was also tracking him through
72

a cellphone his location and track into the parking garage and was there when he took his own
life tally and and the D.A. said you know perpetrators not limited by their gender or the gender
of their partner domestic violence may not always look the same but it's always about power
and control so they're talking about serving up to 5 years that's dicey man people can use ts
these suicide thing for manipulation to would mean for me to kill myself for this relationship all
the other way Yeah and and now what if you say look I'm not interested in whatever you're
saying don't call me again leave me alone are on the hook for that person if they do carry out
now so we have to be extreme case like this it would be a case where you get he doesn't have
details of the first one not intentionally coerces or encourages more if you want somebody who
I am if you don't come back down to you know go ahead I think that's where I mean that's why
there is discretion with prosecutors to the other actually take the case night it's not just a
blanket thing that's true with virtually anything that that could be considered a crime you know
prosecuting necessarily have to prosecute something you look at the circumstances
surrounding any case so in this case we've got 40000 plus text messages plus the situation all
my money buyers that didn't totally different thing for that idea coming Yes because then yet
sky as the word where you're coming from no just if there is a blanket you're going to be
prosecuted for this if you tell somebody something online is that punishing speech is that I yet
there are some I guess messy implications that but I think in this particular case I don't know of
any reasonable person would say that it's just unreasonable to prosecute this woman know
about this woman I mean if if there was something Yeah you heard people get mad they'll say
go eat bleep die and that person commits suicide that person on the hook with law not the fire
if you see a blank but the other thing…
KOBI
Oct 29, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_OCT_OREG_97

the suicide prevention campaign has been producing public service announcements and
speaking to area civic organizations. it's working to break the stigma of not talking about the
increasing numbers of suicides happening in southern oregon. it's also providing messages of
hope ... and making people aware that help is available in our region for those in need. 'we
want to be able to empower people to be able to, uh, talk those pieces through, to be able to
ask people the question about whether they have a plan or whether they're thinking about
taking their own life.' for more information, visit kobi5 dot com and click on the 'in this
together' tab
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Oct 29, 2019 • 6:32 PM

B_OCT_WASH_63

Also, in the crowd were parents, health officials and students. stressing that mental health
distress knows no boundaries. suicide and depression are up 35% among Washington teens in
the last decade. zika brown also presented and said it's important that students have a voice in
the conversation. >> why don't we train the kids? how do you deal with stress and anxiety? if a
strand said i'm really struggling and i don't know what i'm going to do? it's also educating the

73

students and that's what we are looking for. >> brown created a non-profit and is calling on
lawmakers to pass a bill that improves mental health training in classrooms.
KVAL (CBS)
Oct 29, 2019 • 9:45 AM

B_OCT_OREG_98

a new study finds sexual harassment, gender discrimination and other mistreatment is
contributing to a higher rate of burn-out among women surgical residents compared to men.
that study was published in the new England journal of medicine. 65% of women reported
gender discrimination compared to 10% of men. 20% experienced sexual harassment compared
to 4% of men and the women were more likely to report suicide so are sigh dam thoughts than
their male counterparts. the study's authors are calling for solutions to what they call a burnout crisis saying it is hurting doctors and costing the healthcare system billions of dollars.
KHQ (NBC)
Oct 29, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_OCT_WASH_64

we've learned tonight that the driver involved in the crash at barker was not seriously injured.
we are learning new information now on an officer involved shooting on east garnet avenue
last week. the officer who fired his weapon has been identified as caleb martin... who has been
with the department since July of 2016. 61-year-old David Shafer was killed after someone
called 9-1-1 reporting him to be suicidal. after the officer called for him to drop his weapon,
Shafer pointed the gun in the officer’s direction before he was shot twice. investigators are
reviewing body cameras. investigators also contacted neighbors in the area to talk with any
witnesses or obtain any home surveillance video of the incident.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Oct 29, 2019 • 4:48 PM

B_OCT_OREG_99

the girlfriend of a boston college student who authorities say died by suicide in may has been
charged with involuntary manslaughter. dan: prosecutors said 22-year-old alexander urtula
jumped to his death the day of his graduation ceremony. they claim urtula's girlfriend, 21-yearold inyoung you, was there when he died. the pair exchanged 72,000 text messages in the two
months leading up to the death. 47,000 of those texts allegedly came from you, and included
messages like "go kill yourself" and "go die." >> many of the messages clearly display the power
dynamic in the relationship. abuse became more frequent and more powerful in the days and
hours leading up to mr. urtula's untimely death. dan: the da says you is currently in south korea.
she said she's cautiously optimistic she will return to the u.s. voluntarily. the da's office says it's
working with you's lawyers to coordinate an arraignment. this is the same charge that sent a
massachusetts teen to prison earlier this year; she was found guilty for the 2014 suicide of her
friend.

74

News Radio KEX
Oct 30, 2019 • 7:57 AM

B_OCT_OREG_100

talk about schools earlier and it is a slightly different topic so it's a bit of controversy to start
with student I.D.s. having us it's a suicide hotline number wrong we have an exploding number
of suicides me young people it's very troubling it's very serious stuff it around I think it's a good
idea or not here you're introducing the topic which sometimes you know there's all that right
the black if you're going to put a suicide hotline number ana heidi at a middle school I don't
want introducing the topic of suicide my middle schooler that's just me have a look make sure
you get the number right the number was not right it was a sex hotline number that he would
possibly happen are you sure is been verified be real is from real news organization of how do
you not only get the number wrong but it's not a flower shop in our grocery store or the gas
station it's of Gaza is that one on one right the middle school Mr. Whiting and did it or work it I
mean I'm not suicidal reasonably of the foment a feel for the middle school administrators will
be collecting Austin 90s today be pretty new student ideas string of since I think that's a good
idea with the lawn care hotline number.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Oct 30, 2019 • 7:16 AM

B_OCT_WASH_65

Instagram is taking some measures to restrict content seen and posted by its users. so
specifically, travis we're talking about content related to suicide. that's right. the head of the
company says it's trying to strike a balance a difficult balance said that here it is unseen at
Instagram expands ban on images that depict self-harm. So the popular social media platform
banning means drawings graphic images from films or comics portraying self-harm or suicide.
the policy change comes as the company says it's seeing evidence that young people are indeed
being negatively influenced by what they're seeing on the internet and on Instagram. the head
of the company releasing a statement pointing out several risks including how certain material
can cause vulnerable people to hurt themselves. the statement also acknowledges how people
use the internet to express their struggles and to seek help. that's the balancing but points out
the need to protect others from quote being exposed to potentially harmful content. the
company says so far it has reduced the visibility of more than eight hundred and thirty
thousand pieces of harmful content. ok. well you have a lot of movies that deal with this topic
as well. and so i guess you get into the issue of first amendment but at the same time really
tough to defend this type of content. right. if there's real evidence that it is sparking kids to self
harm you can understand why that form which is by the way its own thing? so can decide to
restrict speech it's not like it's the government here can make that choice. there you go. all right
travis thank you.

75

Fox 12 Plus
Oct 30, 2019 • 6:16 AM

B_OCT_OREG_101

kimberly: school district in california is apologizing for giving students the wrong number for
suicide prevention hotline. >> shauna: the number printed for the student i.d. cards were for
sex line. >> reporter: when they got bored and decided to see what would happen if they called
the suicide hot line number, listed on the back of their school i.d., this is what happened. >> hey
there, hot stuff. i've been waiting for your call. >> reporter: you heard right. the number
connected them to a sex line. >> i was in disbelief. that's a suicide prevention hotline. someone
that needs help like that, they shouldn't hear that. >> reporter: emily told her mother about the
call. >> of course i didn't believe her. i called it and sure enough, it was a sex hot line. >>
reporter: she said it was too late to call the school. she posted about it on facebook and got
hundreds of responses. the school district issued a news release which says, late yesterday we
were made aware that the middle school student i.d. cards have the wrong phone number
listed for the suicide hotline. the phone numbers have two digits transposed. this is a mistake.
the number listed on the card is actually a sex line. >> it turns out it's just a transposed number.
it's an honest mistake. >> they should fact check that. >> reporter: what do you say to people
who look at this story and think it's humorous and funny? >> it does have a humorous
undertone but on the same aspect, if somebody really needed help and they called that
number, i don't know what would happen. they need that, they have that number for a reason.
the fact that they call it and get this number, they'd hang up obviously. then what would they
do? >> kimberly: that is quite the story. you know if someone you know is struggling, there is
help. we want to give you information that can be useful to use. counselors are available 24
hours a day and 7 days a week. >> shauna: what a mistake that is. let's talk to andy now.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 30, 2019 • 6:35 AM

B_OCT_WASH_66

Chicago to addressing mental health crisis as saying an increasing number of suicides by police
officers this year 188 officers have died by suicide twice the number who have died in the line
of duty CBS news correspondent jeff Hey Yes moderated discussion suck it up and go away it
didn't go away it to heart and didn't know what to do with earlier this year President Trump
authorized 7.5 million dollars annually for the next 5 years for national police suicide Prevention
efforts including mental health screening and more
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Oct 30, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_OCT_WASH_67

Chiefs from across the country gather in Chicago to addressing mental health crisis as saying an
increasing number of suicides by police officers this year 188 officers have died by suicide twice
the number who have died in the line of duty CBS news correspondent jeff Hey Yes moderated
discussion suck it up and go away it didn't go away it to heart and didn't know what to do with
earlier this year President Trump authorized 7.5 million dollars annually for the next 5 years for
national police suicide Prevention efforts including mental health screening and more train
76

AM 860
Oct 30, 2019 • 6:35 AM

B_OCT_OREG_102

there's some news about Jeffrey Epstein and steen the disgraced money man and sex offender
who was found dead in prison in and new York off breaking now of the Mike Gallagher show up
big bombshell player by the EU and medical legend Dr Michael Bobby the former new York city
medical examiner he has worked on high-profile autopsies and murderer and death cases for
you know 50 years he's never seen the kind of injuries the Jeffrey Epstein supposedly suffered
in a suicidal hanging Let's listen together to Dr. Bobby this morning who appeared on Fox and
friends on the Fox news channel owners cut 10 for the Arabian saying you don't get a suicide I
think that the evidence points to a homicide rather than suicide because there are multiple 3
fractures in the highly bone and thyroid cartilage that very unusual for suicide and more
indicative of strangulation home of times regulation Wow I course right away when the details
emerged after they found his body it seems true or fishy to me according to reports there was a
total breakdown of prison security because this guy was one of the highest profile prisoners in
America body said it was determined that the two guards who were supposed to be working in
that area of the prison had both fallen asleep also there were to security cameras they were
supposed to be recording not only have seen shall but the whole way outside both cameras had
apparently malfunctioned that convenient if you think Jeffrey Epstein committed suicide and
you're not suspicious of the of the details of his death you're not paying attention of this ball is
put it this way you're fairly naïve seems very very suspicious to me all right.

77

