KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 1 • 9:56 AM

B_JAN_WASH_1

a couple years ago suicide CDC reported suicide kills more people than the today them car
crashes that's how much suicide has increased in this country and also access for those who
need mental health care how important that it is as important as you can imagine for being we
actually spent a lot of time looking at this CBS this morning had a special town hall on mental
health and the stigma attached to it you would never say to somebody as diabetes snap out of
it but we say to people with mental health problems you know just kind of federal legislation
requires insurance companies to cover mental illness in the same way they would cover any
other medical conditions like diabetes a federal judge ruled this year against and insurance
companies saying they were not fairly covering mental health illness.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 1 • 3:50 PM

B_JAN_OREG_1

veteran killed himself know can you acknowledge Yes it is a while they kind of like you know
would you like me off for use in truth that suicide is not tied to gun ownership a her with the
the number one give me happy factual ly won't listen guys do a fam hold on to the number one
countries and in the world for serious and fell imam to have the number one countries in the
world for suicide or Japan and South Korea both good country's but they have extraordinarily
tight controls on guns and make our gun laws you know their gun laws are very very tough and
for the most part private citizens are not allowed to own guns yet they have some high suicide
rates in the world when somebody I love matt hit by why map it doesn't matter what it matters
very much so and you are telling me that access to guns does not increase the dollar I occupy
the your time and that Japan had a high tax rate you do not know what the method of death
this point but I not kelly also counts but if you're thinking that somebody commits suicide
because there's a gun available but there was no gun available they would not find another way
to take their life I think Europe is that belies common sense that's why offer of Japan and South
korea as examples that have very high suicide rates much higher than the United States and yet
they have almost no private gun ownership in all so by your theory the japanese and South
korea should have a much lower suicide rate because they don't have routine access by citizens
to guns and yet they have hired suicide rates in the United States of America and have almost
no private gun ownership those are some facts you can study and I'm sorry for your loss.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jan 1 • 4:35 PM

B_JAN_WASH_2

reporter: what if you knew the number of days you had left in your life. >> i do know how many
days left. >> reporter: i mean the exact number. >> i only have 19 days. >> reporter: not
1

approximate. >> no, 7 days. >> reporter: exact. >> 5 more days. >> reporter: let's say you knew.
>> this is it today. it's my final day on the planet. >> reporter: like bob fuller knew your death
date. >> on may 10th, this year, 2019, at 3 p.m., in the afternoon, i will die. >> reporter: so if
you knew, how would you spend those remaining months? weeks? days? hours? >> in a couple
of hours i'm going to be dead tired, no pun really. i will be dead tired. >> reporter: we were
with bob in his last hours. >> i love your cameraman, too. >> reporter: joseph and i. >> thank
you all for being here. >> reporter: we were with him in his final minutes of life. none of us
could have predicted what would happen next. this. >> still here. >> ha ha! even to the end.
fuller reminding us all of us in this room, on that day, about the precious moments. >> i got to
say, you're looking great. you're sounding great. >> i'm very photogenic. >> reporter: we got to
share with him -- >> i'm really mr. demille. >> reporter: there were so many. so many. where do
we begin? how about march 3rd our first day with him. >> are you filming me? >> yes. oh, my
god. >> reporter: he had 68 days left with bob fuller. >> get me to the church on time >>
reporter: he was like sunshine. >> "o happy day." >> reporter: on a cloudy day. if you knew bob
and you spent time with him in those last months, you knew he was in a lot of pain. it was the
tongue cancer. by the time he recorded this bob had already made up his mind to kill himself,
end his pain. bob fuller knew it was his right under washington state's death with dignity law to
request lethal doses of medication, terminally ill patients with less than six months to live have
that right. bob had less than six months to live. >> it's your choice. >> it's bob's choic . >>
reporter: it was also his choice to have us tell his story. i had known bob ten years. joseph knew
him just 68 days. the number of days we were with him as we chronicled his last days of life. >>
you will see as you walk with me here, these next two and a half months that i'm surrounded by
love. >> reporter: the things he did in his life. >> yeah. >> reporter: he was an air force veteran
retired nurse, and over the years he sponsored more than 100 people in alcoholics anonymous.
bob had been sober 35 years. >> he was my sponsor. so that meant that he was, you know,
taking me through the steps in aa and becoming like a mentor. >> reporter: the things bob
would say. >> i don't know if you remember me. >> reporter: always full of surprises. >> that
burned a little bit. >> place the ring. >> reporter: like the time he told us to marry his caregiver
and roommate. >> get married right here in the building. the lady here in the building who
performs these things. just do that in the morning. then we'll go down and have a banquet.
then i'll go kill myself. how was the honeymoon, bob? it was a killer. killer. killer. sorry. i'm not
being -- i'm not being a proper 75-year-old man. >> reporter: the things he taught us. >> he is
teaching us how to live and die. and he is doing it all together. it's beautiful. >> reporter: how
deeply he touched others. >> i had a -- if i could heal him i would do that and wouldn't have to
worry about may 10th. but i don't have a fairy wand. >> reporter: bob fuller knew the numbers
of days he had left and when he would die and how. and ultimately how he wanted us to cover
this moment of his life. >> so how would you like us to cover you on may 10th? >> i would like
you to be here filming the entire thing here in my bedroom as i'm giving my, um, my
medication, my formula, my bowl and just as i'm about to have my last supper, my last meal, i'd
like the cameras to pan from me to some angels that i have post -- my picture of angels around
me and then maybe move the camera out the window here. how's that sound? >> how's it
sound to you? >> sounds nice. >> we'll meet again, don't know where, don't know when >>
reporter: john sharify, king 5 news.

2

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 1 • 2:36 PM

B_JAN_WASH_3

welcome back to the lars larson show well you know I have a dog in the fight on this one I don't
have a really direct personal it's Seriously suicide but when I see folks writing about rational
suicide those two words put in the same sentence rational suicide and that perhaps society
should start talking about Um rational suicides versus irrational and suicide being treated as a
terminal illness I'm not in favor of suicide I actively opposed to a friend came to me and said I've
been thinking about suicide I would do what I could to talk them out of it I even do that for a
stranger not even a friend zone read this piece by Wesley Smith about the focus on suicide
Prevention with eroding and how medicine in the modern world is trying to find good reasons
to say it's okay to commit suicide Wesley welcome back to the program this is a stunning kind
of you know argument that's being made thank you lawrence and unloading audience you
know I've been covering the assisted suicide euthanasia movement for 26 years which is pretty
shocking to me because I never expected to be involved in that and that issue before long I and
over that time I have noticed that he wants a wall above commitment also cited the suicide
Prevention has been eroding and one of the reasons for that I think is the promotion of assisted
suicide itself I mean it is a promotional sums suicides so once you accept the idea that assistant
to the plan or euthanasia is an acceptable answer to the difficulty of terminal home for her and
some places disability and mental illness and we're no longer and typhoon flat society yet most
you're in and pry some suicides he cited them all flow in the mental health professions like
Patrick technology folks work for Trump there has been a majority but a growing view as you
mentioned in the introduction that comes to floods are rational and those should not be
imposed that would put the for they need a mental health professional report any rational
suicide help those who sought a person go through decision-making process that is an
impulsive and that isn't just based on a whim but that if you but do you buy that for a mental
health professional and rational meaning applying that mental health professional own
personal values and then that two sides would be permitted and perhaps even facilitated
irrational suicide for just say a teenager who whose boyfriend leaves her money she wants to
kill itself should be opposed any fake I am for that foot and example of an irrational suicide you
also see that in need of suicide prevention campaign becoming with some exceptions obviously
increasingly left they've all left because the media seems less interested in that issue and more
interested in be more provocative issue promoting assisted suicide doing a story about suicide
going away party is like the new York times about the front page the L.A. times is on others and
so you find yourself in a situation where I don't think we can call myself an anti suicide culture
anymore know and to me Wesley and know people sometimes tell me I'm too black and White
but I don't think you can be a little bit in favor of suicide anymore than you can be a little bit
pregnant it's it's either in favor of whatever or you're not and once you start down that road is
like the old church old joke about the young lady says your show you're suggesting a prostitute
nieces know we've already established that we're just negotiating the price in this case you
have a society that says well we used to be against all suicides now we're in for actually in favor
of some of them but only the right ones and you leave it up to us the know these people I guess
the people society do Decide which ones are justified in which ones are gone right hand and
good for the think people think why you can't be black unwind everything is Gray would never
3

say that about smoking just as one example also of course we can be black and White there's
nobody out there saying you know we would prefer that you not small but if you decide to
create use a filter cigarette that's not how you doing anti-smoking campaign you do an antismoking campaign with an unequivocal message that smoking is bad for your health that can
cause cancer that makes you think and hope for the soul have to be true of suicide you cannot
you know yet you hear that we wanted this article I wrote in National review if you have a pet
that could now saying well we shouldn't even call it commit suicide because the term commit
suicide implies that the floor it's wrong we wanna know a good cause people stigma what you
wanna say people why it's you know one of the things that faith alive and our art is peer
pressure the way people perceive that they will be perspeive if you turn some insight into just a
choice like any other life decision heard it that way my made and you're going to end up with
more people committing suicide because they will not be restrained by the fear that they will
that their decision will be looked upon Corley I just think that for they have unlimited cruel I
think so too and I think it's normal things something that is tremendously damaging especially
it's on any issue where the government has a dog in the fight the government and and
especially if we were to go down the path toward Medicare for all single payer of some other
kind of form the government has an incentive to see that as many people who are terminally ill
or medically problematic that would include mentally ill prop problematic where you could
pour enormous resources into trying to help a person with mental problems and still get no
result the government has a dog in the fight because they have a vested financial interest and
seeing as many of those people go away as possible let me give you a specific example of the
precise hackers to what you just said euthanasia has just been have was legalized a few years
ago by the Supreme court of Canada all across the country we're talking lethal injection
euthanasia in Ontario based I won't let the medical college which is likely downturn medical
Association decide the epic for doctors who wish to not participate in killing patients based on
religion conscience the Ontario medical college said that any doctor who staffed by legally
qualified patient to be killed month steve they're doing a good deed himself or herself or
engaged in what was called an effective phone that is find a doctor that they know will be
willing to kill another words every doctor in Ontario Canada have to be complicit in euthanasia
have as part of theme the Alia professional doctor some doctors often and they could wait a
second can of our hair for and explosive protection in its charter which is like our constitution
protecting quote freedom of conscience and religion. Lou to the non charter right to receive
legal health care paid for by the government I mean the courts said if you don't like it than for
example if your oncologist become my hair transplant person it would do Haile clogs the idea of
forcing experienced doctors to choose between committing homicide off in or going into an
area practice if they're not academic or getting out of medicine is really warring not the least of
which is potentially huge brain drain that can occur when you're telling experienced oncologist
they have to kill the patient know makes no sense at all you can read the whole piece in
national review online Wesley Smith is the author or nieces senior followed the discovery
Institute Center on human exceptionalism which Unfortunately that exceptionalism seems to
be eroding under the force of government wesley thank you very much I appreciate the time.

4

KING-SEA (NBC)
Jan 1 • 7:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_4

… reveal how the army continues to turn its back on some of the most vulnerable soldiers. >>
last year we found servicemembers with ptsd being kicked out of the military for behaviors
directly related to their condition. in her series "no thank you for your service" we find another
local soldier paying the price. >> reporter: right there in the front is jeffrey smith. an infantry
man training in afghanistan for one of his first of many sites. three combat employments and 10
years later, we met him at his home, this time fighting a new battle. >> once you get your bike - >> reporter: against the army that sent him to war. >> i am more comfortable being in
afghanistan than i am sitting in his this living room right now. >> reporter: doctor say he needs
help, the army made a choice to kick him out of the service without honor, without va benefits.
without help. the discharge? other than honorable, the reason, misconduct. >> it is tough to
function, normally. that is the reason i don't know what i'm going to do. >> reporter: over 7
months last year he got in trouble for three alcohol-related incidents. he showed up to work
drunk, then he got a dui. all behavior, doctors could have protected. >> it is as much part ptsd
as pain is a part of cancer. >> reporter: not only his he decorated with honors, what those
records don't show was his private struggle. >> i would be at work, having anxiety or a panic
attack and start freaking out and just, you know, go get what i have always gotten. get alcohol.
>> reporter: he had a dui before the service when he was 22. after his first deployment in 2010
he said he started turning to alcohol not just in social situations, but to simply function. the
army sent him to treatment, their first of several attempts to get him help. but it did not work.
>> it is when you get home that your brain starts processing everything that you went through.
and i mean we were trying to process it by ourselves. i mean, alcohol was the only way we
could do it. it wasn't going and talking to someone. >> reporter: he could not talk about the
helplessness he felt in battle. listening over the radio to his friend, die. he could not talk about
what it felt like to know that soldier died, and somehow he made it out of three separate ied
blasts, and this fire fight. >> i was sure i was dead. you see trees around you exploding, i told
myself over and over in my mind, just keep squeezing the trigger until you get shot. >> reporter:
on that same deployment, he says his platoon walked through an afghanistan village right after
the us military hit with mortars. >> there were kids burned up, you know, stuff on the ground,
and schools. women burned up [ crying ]. >> reporter: memory that haunts him more now that
he has a family. >> it is somebody's kid over there, that was just [ crying ] -- >> reporter: last
year all that unresolved pain came to a head . that is when he started showing up to work late,
and drunk. it put him on a track to get him out of the military, with a medical discharge. the
process they have used with tens of thousands of soldiers. after he got that second dui as a
soldier, his captain put a stop to that medical treatment. he recommended that the army
instead punish smith, by kicking him out for breaking the rules. >> if you look at what he is
being called misconduct, it is really a measure of the severity of these symptoms. >> reporter:
two psychiatrists who examined smith and person agreed, he was using alcohol to avoid his
trauma, to relieve the symptoms of his ptsd. in the end it would be up to not a doctor, but a
major general at joint base lewis mccord, to decide whether this struggling soldier deserves
lifelong and if it's an help or nothing at all. you already know smith walked away empty-handed.
>> i should've picked a different career. >> reporter: in the army commanding generals always
5

have the power to decide a soldier state, even those suffering from medical issues like ptsd.
those decisions are now coming under scrutiny, last year we interviewed this sheldon veteran.
>> when you witness a massive fluttering -- >> reporter: he too was diagnosed with severe ptsd.
more than once he tried to commit suicide. after our investigation, whistleblowers came
forward. they told us the army has a pattern of punishing soldiers. >> hurry up and get them
out, they are too much trouble. >> reporter: soldiers who fought the war, suffered mentally,
and really just need help. they say the separation process is there, they issue statements that
say commanders look at everything in the packet when making their decision. but the bottom
line is that i continue to have soldiers in crisis contacting me in the situation, and they are not
getting the help that they need.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 1 • 6:15 AM

B_JAN_OREG_2

the war is on for two years and I got the call the call to join the service supported the boys
thousands of American troops come home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan suffering the
effects of posttraumatic stress and traumatic brain injuries I got PTSD I thought I had enough
hope and skills I don't think anybody goes into combat could ever honestly say that they're not
different we make them harder would you take is simply being is not so simple for me anymore
I have my good days and my bad days Yeah I really don't like to stay engaged I would say to
those people 0 0 Bill Gross's time to us who support these troops and their families you're more
of their stories and the U.S. are only visible wounds got the Blues are envious of the stories are
real life is full of bittersweet transitions it's difficult to know how these changes will impact is
over time for some people difficult transitions like retirement before worse or loss of a loved
one can hit harder than expected and H tribute to feelings of hopelessness or even thoughts of
suicide and the risk of Swiss side is he can hire her from in over 50 who served our country guys
like me that's why I support from friends and family makes such a big difference every day your
actions could help save a life together we got to this learn how you can help save a life the
veterans crisis line.net
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 1 • 11:02 PM

B_JAN_OREG_3

we all feel stress. in today's health minute jeremy helps to identify how to deal with them. >>>
stress is your body's reaction to a trigger or experience. you don't have to let it ruin your day or
your life. the national institute of mental health is five things you should know about stress. it
affects everyone. there are different types than they can all affect your physical and mental
health. stress can come from something routine like school or work. perhaps a sudden negative
change. you can present itself as traumatic stress from a horrific event. in some cases stress can
trigr our fight or flight instinct. other instances it can motivate you when completing an
important task. chronic stress can be debilitating. when your body is in a constant state of
stress sometimes it can be challenging to reach normal levels. eventually it can contribute to
problems like heart disease high blood pressure and mental health disorders. be observant of
your body's response. talk to a healthcare provider. get regular exercise. partake in a relaxing
6

activity. write down your goals and priorities. stay connected to others. you don't have to tough
it out. stress especially prolonged stress can lead to serious mental health conditions suicidal
thoughts or substance abuse. find a professional who can guide you through and help relieve
some of the symptoms.
KFXO (FOX)
Jan 1 • 10:42 PM

B_JAN_OREG_4

if de-stressing's one of your new year's resolutions....you're in luc in today's health minute,
jeremy roth helps you identify the symptoms of stress and how to manage. ### stress is your
body's reaction to a trigger or experience. but you don't have to let it ruin your day or life. the
national institute of mental health has five things you should know about stress: it affects
everyone! there are different types, and they can all affect your physical and menta health.
stress can come from something routine like school or work perhaps a sudden negative change.
it can also present itself as traumatic stress from a horrific event in some cases, stress can
trigger our fight or flight instincts. in other instances, can motivate you when completi an
important tas chronic stress can b debilitating when your body is in a constant state of stress,
sometimes it can be challenging to reach normal levels. eventually...chronic stress can
contribute to problems like hear disease, high blood pressure and mental health disorder -be
observant of your body respon -talk to a health care provider -get regular exercise -partake in a
relaxing activity -write down your goals a priorities -stay connected to others -you don't have to
tough it out. stress, especially prolonged stress, can lead to serious mental health conditions,
suicidal thought or substance abuse find a professional who can guide you through and help
relieve some of th symptoms. for today's health minute, i'm jeremy roth.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jan 2 • 6:04 PM

B_JAN_WASH_5

a man suspected of murder waived his first appearance in court this afternoon as investors look
for motive in a deadly New Year’s Day shooting. it happened in the early morning hours in the
pioneer square neighborhood. patrol officers witnessed the shooting and chased down the 21year-old suspect. the victim, 24 years old, died at the hospital. the next court appearance will
be monday. >>> necessary changes for the funeral for the principal who was murdered by her
husband. is being moved to the bellingham high school performance arts center to
accommodate all people but plan to go. lynn heim sought's husband shot and killed her before
trying to kill himself last week. he is still in the icu.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 2 • 7:44 AM

B_JAN_OREG_5

>> when you hear they're getting help, you're like, what, why are you getting help? that's
weird. that sigma against mental health is so strong. >> there's a nationwide mental health
crisis in south korea where the subject is still taboo and there's limited resources for those
seeking help. according to the world health organization, south korea has one of the highest
7

suicide rates of any country, nearly double the u.s. sully who died in october was an outspoken
mental health activist and feminist, an anomaly in the industry. >> aging is yet another stress. kpop stars already have a short shelf life. retirement age is 30, if not earlier. and young rising
idols like alexandra christine sniderman can add to that. >> they put on this pedestal kind of like
untouchable perfection i guess in the public's eyes in the consumers' eyes. >> the 23-year-old
korean american from tulsa, oklahoma, debuted her first single "bomb" in october. 9.5 million
youtube views and rising. >> it took two days to film, 24 hours each day almost. >> wow. >> yes.
>> you were up filming dancing, retaking for 24 hours. >> yes, with like six costume changes, six
or seven set changes. when i'm performing i always get this adrenaline rush. >> we follows
alexa's busy schedule from hair and makeup to her late night filming of a christmas video for
social media. >> i struggled with self-confidence for years. i have recently stumbled upon that.
>> south korean society is slow to change, but there is hope. after sully's death in october, the
korea entertainment management association announced its plans to try and stop cyber
violence, saying it will root out malicious commenters online and seek to have them punished.
why can't you see it's killing us >> lieu thinks that's a good start. she says sometimes she thinks
about why she's still in the business, but keeps going for her friends who are now gone. >> i feel
like the easiest thing that we all can do, everybody can do is just try to be kind to one another.
>> very high price for a lot of those performers, you know. the stress level, you can see how
intense it is. >> so many young people that look unp to them. >> yeah. >> not only in south
korea. suicide is the second leading cause of death for people under the age of 35 in the u.s. >>
1 in 5 u.s. adults experience mental illness each year. >> we get better every year treating
ailments of the body. it's time to focus on the mind. >> absolutely. >> if you or someone you
know is in an emergency, call the suicide prevention number on the screen right now or call
911.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 2 • 3:15 PM

B_JAN_WASH_6

he is somebody this is based on somebody else's blog post on a lot of data and some of it didn't
come from the cdc and the world health organization and some reputable places the Dow
collection but a couple things that he glossed over what you can do with these listicles and put
them together to make it fit any ideology you want to one of the things is for every 100 females
ages 15 to 19 who commit suicide their Garden 200 and 93 males I right well I went back and
checked that didn't come from the cdc but both of those numbers are too high a period of
asleep you're talking about teenagers Emily he doesn't point out is there was a 24% increase
over at 15 year period that is a dramatic upticks skyrocket like that for teenage girls and so
rather than saying is there a war on boys what is your question there your question is that why
a teen suicide treated as a preventable public health the she would like is my question is when
we see outcomes in data where there are certain groups are doing this all for us we'll talk later
in the show about

8

B_JAN_OREG_6

News Radio KEX
Jan 2 • 11:25 AM

I know a couple of precincts in iowa but he's down that polling polling rose 3% when you ask
him about what if you took all the money from old billionaire as wedges wedges get to Wed as
it gets you doesn't get kid doesn't get anywhere before forget I wanted to touch on this jeffrey
I'm in and the thing is that conspiracy theorist but his suicide as unite replies everything you've
gone wrong his quote unquote suicide if they Yeah they believe these for an Academy award
for best service it's a fantastic thing about that now saying that now saying that this report in
the new York Post which is fascinating with him and his his alleged procuring get and Maxwell
mind I met once long ago issues the door for Roma Maxwell a possibly discussing man who
wound up sleeping with the fishes in the mediterranean many again at the apparent suicide
when he Committed Suicide by falling off the side of his alter and some advice if you have to be
gay of getting mixed up with Dylan Maxwell every every guy she's close to things up in one of
these suspicious serious side anyway of its nabbing Repole to the in fact jeffrey have a stain and
get and Maxwell what to high any exception rule important U.S. intelligence assets ad and of
the nal get lled Maxwell these big boos from safe House to safe House to safe House by wealthy
European friends because if you want I high value U.S. intelligence assets when they of high
value U.S. intelligence assets Assad widens up supposedly committed suicide with his sheet fair
pulling off the bond in a New York jail cell the last thing you want to do is be walking around in
public lest you accidently commit suicide by by being taken out by a number 7 boss on 5th
Avenue or whatever so she's gone into it so she's got into high as that building conspiracy there
is when you look at how old these guys live for us the russian investigation who knows years I'm
curious to hear.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jan 2 • 4:05 PM

B_JAN_OREG_7

a transgender woman from portland is suing a national beauty pageant for the right to
compete. >> maggie vespa joins us with that. maggie, that comes down to one rule. >> that's
right. this pageant we're talking about is the miss united states of america pageant, which is
different from miss usa. this is their website here. rule number four, each contestant must be a
natural born female. well, anita says that send a damaging, discriminatory message. she is
transgender and has competed in pageants for years. even winning elite miss oregon in 2018.
so last year she says a rep for miss united states of america recruited her via facebook. she
applied, paid the almost $200, and then was rejected, given a refund and pointed to that rule.
she and her attorney argue barring trans women from competing violates oregon's public
accommodations law whichprohibits discrimination of any kind in places or by groups that
serve the public. last month green sued in federal court. and today she came to our newsroom
to talk about why. >> i compete in pageantry to show that there are many different types of
beauty. to me, that rule was saying that transgender women aren't women. and that send a
harmful message. i think with that message, messages like that, actually contribute to the high
suicide rate that transgender people have.

9

News Radio KEX
Jan 2 • 6:45 PM

B_JAN_OREG_8

The same news hope for Justice by Jeffrey Epstein's victims dies with him in jail for dozens of
women who said they were trafficked for sex by Jeffrey Epstein his arrest in July represented a
glimmer of poll I've seen is charged with two count by the first conspiracy to commit sex
trafficking a second the sobs of crime those sex trafficking of underage girls Michelle Licata said
she was abused by Epstein when she was 16 and seeing him in court brought her to tears
because it coming back to that place where everyone to be a criminal charges revive the
controversy over a lenient deal Epstein had been given by then U.S. Attorney Alex costa I'm
calling on Secretary a costume to resign he didn't resign as President Trump's labor secretary a
month later Epstein died in jail it's way too convenient the mayor's suspicions aside the medical
examiner ruled the death a suicide by hanging to jail guards were charged with ignoring around
to sleep or surf the Internet leaving Epstein alone and unsupervised.
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 2 • 6:05 PM

B_JAN_OREG_9

the rate of emergency room admissions and hospitalizations for mental health issues and
suicide has gone down in coos county. that's attributed to a mobile response team. the crisis
program is run by coos health and wellness. the medical examiner reported 23 suicides since
january 2019. the team works to keep these tragedies from happening. >> we are getting calls
from local law enforcement and community partners and family members to make a decision
about whether we need to respond to that individual. or if we can for example intervene by
phone. and we are coming out with the law enforcement request. >> law enforcement officers
have been trained and certified in crisis intervention. they learn about mental health illness to
help them de- escalate situations. >>> de-escalation tactics is a lot of times just building a
rapport with the person. the mortgage knowledge base you have on whether it's mental health
issues or whatever that crisis that person may be facing is how you start working the deescalation. >> the crisis intervention skills is always on the mind of officers. they rely on mobile
response on a weekly basis.
KLSR (FOX)
Jan 2 • 7:05 PM

B_JAN_OREG_10

"i spoke with salem city councilor vanessa nordyke about the city's response to the
homeless.01:17:46 me: is the city doing enough to help them.17:50 the city needs to do more
and frankly our entire community needs to step up. 17:54nordyke says she wants to see
designated areas for people to camp if the city can't open additional shelters. according to last
year's point in time count, over a thousand people are living on the streets in marion
county.there are only about 300 available shelter beds in salem. the city says staff continue to
look for more shelter beds. the rate of emergency room admissions and hospitalzations for
mental health issues and suicide has gone down in coos county. much of that is attributed to a
mobile response team. the crisis program is run by coos health and wellness. coos county
10

medical examiner recorded 23 suicides since january 2019. the team works to keep these
tragedies from happening. ("we're getting calls from local law enforcement, maybe community
partners, family members. from there, we make a decision about whether we need to respond
to that individual in the community, or if we can intervene via phone. typically, if law
enforcement or a community partner is calling, we're coming out.") for the past three years,
local law enforcement officers have been trained and certified in crisis intervention. they also
learn about mental health illness to help them de- escalate some situations. ("de-escalation
tactics is a lot of times trying to build a rapport with that person, and the more knowledge base
you have on whether it is mental health issues or whatever crisis that person is facing is how
you start working that de-escalation.") he says the crisis intervention training skills are always
on the mind of officers. they rely on the mobile response team on a weekly basis.
News Radio KEX
Jan 2 • 5:35 PM

B_JAN_OREG_11

sometimes we overlook component of our health that is just as important as our bodies and
our minds we take a physical health very seriously and we need to do the same for our mental
health this includes are emotional psychological and social well-being it influences the way we
think act and feel so what are some signs they're going through a mental health problem you
may notice changes in the eating and sleeping patterns wanting to isolate yourself for losing
interest in activities he previously enjoyed you may also feel allergic or lower energy find it
difficult to perform your daily tasks and the most extreme cases have suicidal or self-harm
thoughts do not be a shame to seek professional help to maintain positive mental health you
can also start by making some small changes in your daily life like reaching out to others are
getting more physically active I'm also a big fan of meditation even just 5 minutes a day of
guided meditation breathing exercises help center the mind and calm your thoughts.
KONG-SEA
Jan 2 • 2:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_7

ricki lake sharing shocking photos with fans, real light realing she's been suffering for her last 30
years, it's been debilitating, embarrassing and painful and caused her to feel suicidal. she said it
started when she starred in hairspray and blames her career, her diet and weight fluctuations
among other things. 50% of women will experience notable hair loss and 40 million american
women suffer from female pattern hair loss according to the cleveland clinic. >> hair is a selfexpression for men and women. for women, ricki lake in the limelight you want to keep up this
image. if she's on tv going gray men it may be more accepted, lebron james putting fake hair,
for women it is so much more uncomfortable. if your hair is thinning, or you look older because
that is discarded in our society. i understand the struggle but i'm happy she freed herself. >>
how come women don't talk about that more. we run commercials about this. >> we pretend it
doesn't happen. >> it is more stigmatized in the sense that if a man wears a to pay, but if a
woman wears a wig there like where did you get that? it is kind of a person i wonder why as
women they don't talk about it. >> i am glad ricki lake is. i think women feel the femininity
attached to their hair so they don't talk about it,not to correlate it but after sophie a lot of
11

women suffer from postpartum hair loss so i lost all my hair around here and i used to wear my
hair like this. it is still growing out, my hair is two inches right here. hers is drastically different
from what i went through but it's synonymous with femininity and it shouldn't be >> my wife
went through the same thing and then you get the baby hears back >> on the trend. >> literally,
they are just growing out and were about to have another baby so they will go again.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jan 2 • 6:31 PM

B_JAN_OREG_12

police in chicago are investigating what appears to be a murder-suicide that left two little boys
dead. chicago investigators say a 20-year-old woman stabbed her grandfather inside her 11thfloor apartment. after the attack, she allegedly threw a 1-year-old boy out a window and
jumped herself. a 2-year-old boy was found in scalding bath water with cuts to the head. both
kids were pronounced dead at a hospital. the woman and her 70-year-old grandfather are in
critical condition. police have not confirmed the woman is the mother of the children.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 2 • 11:18 AM

B_JAN_WASH_8

Telling fans it's not a mid-life crisis or a mental breakdown sharing the photos of her new look
on her social media pages writing, it has been debilitating, embarrassing, painful, scary,
depressing, lonely, all the things. there have been a few times where i have even felt suicidal
over it. almost no one in my life knew the level of deep pain and trauma i was experiencing. not
even my therapists over the years knew my truth saying she wanted to start 2020 feeling
liberated, free and real. she went on to say her hair was healthy when she played tracy
turnblatt but changed after filming. the actress believes her hair loss was attributed to a
number of factors including hormonal birth control, radical weight fluctuations, stress and hair
dyes. though she went to the doctors for treatment receiving steroid shots and supplements it
would still fall out most recently after working in london and going on an extreme diet in six
weeks. according to the cleveland clinic, more than 50% of women will experience it in their
lifetimes. she's hoping to inspire men and women who deal with hair loss on a daily basis. ricki's
honesty and openness is certainly inspiring others. women are taking to her facebook page to
share their own stories and their own photos and support those that are facing similar
challenges.
KONG-SEA
Jan 2 • 10:17 PM

B_JAN_WASH_9

a transgender woman from portland is suing the national beauty pageant for the right to
compete. anita green has competed in pageants for years. she won elite miss oregon in 2018.
last year, she says a representative for miss united states of america recruited her on facebook
so she applied but was rejected. the pageant pointed to a rule saying contestants must be
natural born females. her lawyer says the rule violates oregon's public accommodations law
prohibiting discrimination of any kind in places or by groups who serve the general public. >> i
12

compete in pageantry to show there are many different types of duty. to me, that rule was
saying that transgender women aren't women. and that is a very harmful message. i think that
message, messages like that, actually contribute to the high suicide rate that transgender
people have. >>> the pageant has hired an attorney so far, no comment.
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 3 • 6:00 AM

B_JAN_OREG_13

the rate of emergency room admissions and hospitalizations for mental health issues and
suicide has gone down in coos county. much of that is attributed to a mobile response team.
the crisis program is run by coos health and wellness. the coos county medical examiner
recorded 23 suicides since january 2019. the team works to keep these tragedies from
happening. ("we're getting calls from local law enforcement, maybe community partners,
family members. from there, we make a decision about whether we need to respond to that
individual in the community, or if we can intervene via phone. typically, if law enforcement or a
community partner is calling, we're coming out.") for the past three years, local law
enforcement officers have been trained and certified in crisis intervention. they also learn
about mental health illness to help them de- escalate some situations. ("de-escalation tactics is
a lot of times trying to build a rapport with that person, and the more knowledge base you have
on whether it is mental health issues or whatever crisis that person is facing is how you start
working that de-escalation.") he says the crisis intervention training skills are always on the
mind of officers. they rely on the mobile response team on a weekly basis.
…but you have one thing on the Internet jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself people agree but they
say all no no no this is sleaze some pathological conspiracy there we put our digs in and shut
down because we know anybody that to think that you know you need leave things alone
because you need to understand that the people don't think very highly journalist right they
feel very very Highly think very highly of the media right now I mean you need to understand
that there's no question that what the government is doing is is insane I've said many times
conspiracy theories Bailey syria until there are many facts to back up those threes but manual
corralling saying Wow this is not their they don't even hide it anymore with don't you tonight
question your government is doing or not question authority means that we are here
developing some myopic blind trust the political affairs and major events that affect all of us
the worst I have a tale of all is to believe that politicians would never lie you the denial is
believing that they are at your service though you're betting on do whatever they say the do
whatever they do whatever you say that's not what they do is they actually do things the
getting big money lobbyists and financiers and banks an old money we know this is a conspiracy
and trusting the government all things gives an excuse to abuse you take advantage of you
because most americans they're not gullible they're just good natured we're good natured
people we want the best for everybody you know if you're a person who doesn't believe in
conspiracy theories I believe the people who pushed conspiracy theories are basically
pathological liar you really that person that believes that the cia and intelligence apparatus
would never lie or light you about their lives I mean if there were questions of conspiracy
theories about the alphabet agencies what we believe that there's sole job is to protect
13

national security do whatever is necessary to protect freedom here at home instead of
participating in destabilizing our government and stabilize governments abroad for the deep
state has their hand in everything they didn't hand wringing about all this tension and drama
the United States if the government wants to see conspiracy there's maligned it they want to
see conspiracy theory shut down they would be able to control how we view the pentagon and
the defense industry they would be able to convince you without rebellion are questioning that
they have been established throughout who mystically secure the blessings of Liberty in this
country forget me if I sound like a sarcastic ask but the truth of the matter is they don't care the
biggest lie of all the South that agencies they're saying well we're here just to stop Ebola in the
corruption that's why we're doing this whole impeachment think what they're doing they're
attacking us they're compromising the ballot box they're there they're actually meddling in our
election they're doing this mailing this is tampering so good case for and biggest lie of all is that
the fbi and the cia in the alphabet agencies are only interested in stopping people as stopping
predatory apex predator criminals using the legal system to their benefit and then we bring in
jeffrey epstein boy what happened with him and his sweetheart deal and how he got away with
what he got away with and conspiracy theories are saying hour while jeff receiving kill himself
the said means they're going all over the Internet they're winding up on the bottom of a beer
cans one of the news programs ever Hey you know they they have mixed feelings about it first
of all we are making light of this the whole story I was making a lie it a jeffrey have seen by
having this mean or dry attention to what happened because people are saying is not getting
that attention the media that impeachment has some House side tracked all I don't I agree I
don't think anybody cared about I think the people care about the immediate cared enough
about it you don't get people angry about it made sure their people have concern for all the
horrible things that he's done he's dead now the Boogie man is dead at least that's what we
think He was murdered everybody can agree that wasn't murdered most people agree it was a
the same lesson 30 the American people believe jeffrey have seen in films I don't buy that
because for the first time in a conspiracy theory history we have a conspiracy meme jeffrey
have seen incomes up they're both right and left agree somewhat in the idea that he didn't kill
himself this is the first this is something we all agree on this is where you know the division the
dividing lines the schedule Genesis goes away gone he'll agree together that's something about
Jeffrey Epstein is not right and that is a complex conspiracy theory has been reduced down to
just one sentence like 9 11 is an inside job or something else is out there that makes me they
will make their marketing for Christmas that's how big this thing Yes but putting on Christmas
cards put on T-shirts her busy Jeffrey s Epstein didn't kill himself Elf on a shelf that's why they
got Yeah you look up much getting it's outrageous it's dark for the holidays - what are your
thoughts on this meme Jeffrey F ING kill himself to be as good or bad if you agree with this is
this something you think both right and left agree on and that made it the impeachment is
distracting people from this story and the story needs to come out.
KONG-SEA
Jan 3 • 7:07 PM

B_JAN_WASH_10

what happened in convicted pedophile jeffrey epstein's jail sell the day he died has been greatly
debated despite being ruled a suicide. now no information is emerging including the fact that
14

his fellow inmates were chanting "breathe epstein brief" after he was found dead in his cell. >>
did jeffrey epstein leave behind a suicide note? >> there is a note and a pen and on sunday we
will show you what that note says. >> 60 minutes correspondent sharon alfonsi has an exclusive
look inside epstein's cell at the correctional center in manhattan where he was found dead last
august. >> inside of his cell were things like an electrical cord, prescription medicines, bedding
and sheets. >> the presence of all of the sheets is raising questions. why were they allowed
when epstein previously attempted suicide? there are many skeptics out there that claim
jeffrey epstein didn't kill himself. >> sources say that they could overhear the guards saying,
"breathe epstein brie ." and soon after that all the prisoners started chanting "breathe epstein
brie ." >> after failing to resuscitate him, prison authorities rushed of the body to a hospital and
that appears to be a violation of regulations, fueling more conspiracy theories about the
tycoon's death. >> the protocol is that you are supposed to leave a dead body. it is a crime
scene. a suicide scene should be treated like a crime scene and that did not happen. >> the 60
minutes segment on jeffrey epstein's on 60 minutes on cbs Sunday.
KMVU (FOX)
Jan 3 • 11:11 PM
B_JAN_OREG_14
next, we are learning that the surveillance video jeffrey epstein suicide attempt has gone
missing. jen smith joins us now from our new york newsroom with more. when did authorities
realize that this footage was missing? >> well, jesse, the truth is i still don't know. in court, the
prosecutor admitted i don't know the details of how it was destroyed or why it wasn't
maintained when it should have been. at that attempt was at the end of july when he tried to
hang himself. he survived and was moved to suicide watch at the prison. as we know, he went
on to successfully kill himself just two weeks later, and his death is now the subject of an
investigation. looking further into what happened to the missing tape. >> jesse: they were on
duty that night that he died and have been charged with falsifying records. they both are pled
not guilty. jen smith in new york. thank you.
KBNZ
Jan 3 • 5:45 PM

B_JAN_OREG_15

brennan: sunday night, "60 minutes" reveals new information about the jail cell death of jeffrey
epstein. the wealthy financier was awaiting trial on charges of sexually abusing underage girls
when he was found dead of an apparent suicide last august. sharyn alfonsi spoke with forensic
pathologist dr. michael baden, who was hired by epstein's family to investigate his death.
badwen tells "60 minutes" that epstein likely died two hours before the body was discovered.i
>> reporter: the guards say they came in at 6:30. they found him. they call emergency services.
they tried to do c.p.r. with him. but he's dead. but rather than leave the body there, they take
the body to an emergency room. >> yeah.om >> reporter: is that normal protocol? >> no, that's
not normal protocol. the e.m.s. people normally-- andm. especially in a jail-- should not move a
dead body. >> brennan: what happened insiden: jeffrey epstein's jail cell? sharyn alfonsi
investigates sunday night on "60 minutes."

15

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 3 • 8:35 PM

B_JAN_WASH_11

suicide among law enforcement officers continues to climb CBS news correspondent Gary non
reports I'm getting more cops died of suicide last year than in the line of duty to 128 and 29 18
56 more than the year before the organization Blue help says the cause was suicide deaths
among current and retired officers used in the calculations a real total is likely higher Blue help
co-founder Steven House says the increase also may indicate reporting a suicide and increase
what we did a good thing and he says will help deal with the stigma one police officer death
duties suicide already reported this year.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 3 • 7:35 AM

B_JAN_OREG_16

… but he's dead. but rather than leave the body there, they take the body to an emergency
room. >> yeah. >> is that normal protocol? >> no. that's -- that's not normal protocol. the ems
people normally, and especially in jail, should not move a dead body. >> he's right. bureau of
prison protocol mandates a suicide scene should be treated with the same level of protection
as any crime scene in which a death has occurred. >> sharon is with us now. sharon, welcome.
what did the prison guards do with jeffrey epstein's body? >> so immediately after they
discovered him, they took him to the hospital. they were trying to do cpr on him. about an hour
after he got to the hospital, they declared him officially dead. about 7:30. and then he was
taken to the morgue where they did the autopsy the next day. >> what do we know about what
was found in jeffrey epstein's jail cell? >> so it's interesting. you would think that it would be
sparse, right? this is a federal prison, high security. what we have learned through our reporting
is that there was multiple sheets in there. lots of bedding. an electrical cord. prescription
medicine. there was actually notes and a paper he had written a note. and on sunday, we'll
show you what that note said. >> so in the piece, you were heard saying that a guard was
saying, breathe, jeffrey, breathe. so this was widely known what was happening in the prison?
or we aren't sure? >> well, we know the way that the prison was set up, he was in a secure area
where there were about eight cells. and so we have heard and our sources tell us that the
guards could be overheard saying, breathe, epstein, breathe. and what's kind of eerie is that
after that, the prisoners that were in that secure area all started chanting, breathe, epstein,
breathe. >> so the other prisoners were aware of what was going on apparently. >> they knew
something was going on. doors are blocked. they probably couldn't see that much. but
certainly, they heard the commotion. >> was there video surveillance in that area? >> it's a
great question. we know there was video surveillance facing the guards' desk which is outside
of the area where he was. we are told that the video facing the cells, the video that might have
seen his cell door, was corrupted. >> corrupted meaning? >> we don't know. >> okay. >> good
question. >> so on the question of what was in his jail cell, i mean it's interesting. you would
expect it to be spartan. apparently, it was not. but was that a violation there in that cell? was it
unusual to find bed sheets there? >> there's very specific bureau of prison protocol about
what's allowed inside a cell. and i think you'll see on sunday, when you see the photos, that a
lot of the bedding raises a lot of questions. as you know, it had been reported that he made a
16

first failed suicide attempt weeks earlier. and yet, his cell was covered in bedding and sheets.
he was the only person in the cell. and there were enough sheets for lots of people. >> wow. >>
all right. sharon, thank you very much. you can see sharon's full report on 60 minutes this
sunday night at 7/6 central right here on cbs.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 3 • 5:35 PM

B_JAN_OREG_17

60 minutes reveals new information about the jail cell death of Jeffrey Epstein the wealthy
financier was away was awaiting trial on charges of sexually abusing underage girls when he
was found dead of an apparent suicide last August correspondent Cheryl party spoke with
friends pathologist Dr Michael Baden who was hired by Epstein's family to investigate his death
the guard city he minutes 6 30 they found him they call emergency services they tried the cpr
with them he's dead but rather than leave the body there they take the body to an emergency
room is that normal proet call I know that's the normal protocol of the E.M.S. people normal
lee and especially in jail should not move the dead body big also says that seem likely died two
hours before his body was discovered.
KEPR (CBS)
Jan 3 • 5:02 PM

B_JAN_WASH_12

a man is now dead after police say he cut himself in an attempt to commit suicide by cop, after
leading them on a wild pursuit, through grandview. police say the chase began near avenue f
and second street, when the man blew through several stop signs, court documents say josi
vasquez reached speeds of up to 45 miles per hour, he later abandoned the car, running away
on foot, police say he stopped and began cutting himself with a pruning knife, shouting quote,
please kill me. i want to die. police believe vasquez was high and drunk, during the whole
ordeal.
KOBI
Jan 3 • 6:43 PM

B_JAN_OREG_18

staying competitive is providing a product that i think our viewers will appreciate and the indepth reporting that you provide, i know, it sounds like were doing a commercial for ourselves
but im really proud of the process that we go through to make sure that were doing it right. in
2019 the station launched in the together a campaign thats gonna continue through this year
into 2021; a suicide prevention campaign. sure if people arent familiar, why is it important for
you, for us to be involved in this? bob: you know this has been one of the most interesting
projects ive ever been involved with because everybody knows theres an issue with suicide.the
numbers keep growing and when i kept talking to non-profits in our area and people that are in
the world of suicide prevention they kept telling…

17

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jan 3 • 8:55 PM

B_JAN_WASH_13

a new report by Massachusetts non-profit says more police officers in America die by suicide
last year they were killed in the line of duty to fill Hewlett report it's the organization Blue help
which tracks police suicides says at least 228 officers die by suicide last year that's the highest
number the organization's ever reported the group says that's higher than all other line of duty
deaths combined.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 3 • 9:40 PM

B_JAN_OREG_19

you think this is an anti-hillary think no I don't think I just think this is just how the collar Mo
Fara why I mean because a lot of people when they happen because that out because they
have right now who knows who to Jeffrey O know what happened to jeff week but I it is
everybody's mind is so focused on staying and hillary is so involved minute that's how we feel
that she could never run for President again well Here's the thing and and iowa while its kind
illustrate this for those realize I can understand where you're coming from this whenever we
hear jeffrey epstein did not kill himself in appeal Ray Yeah he didn't kill himself a lot of people
here that who killed him and a lot of you will go right to the idea that hillary clinton did it all
That hillary clinton had reason to do it in fact it was so pervasive the Trevor Noah who is the
guy who works on the daily show a interviewed hillary clinton and asked her directly he said he
said torso just how did you kill jeffrey have stated she laughs and the start she's be debated me
man I think you have worse mean I think it's already bigger bigger than Momo it really is a big
moment a Yeah he decided to run for President we did use the F they will have that sign if she
runs for president who killed jeffrey happy with it so you know there I know one thing here if
they if they go to a campaign rally and they have signed said Jeffrey F he didn't kill himself and
hillary sees those that could easily get noted that could make things look bad for her if she runs
for president I guy grew out I really do and maybe that's and I mean I do think that she moved
out there she goes too good to even talk today to stock the University people don't bring your
own phone I don't know I haven't seen in a box I see the signs of that that that that that is what
this magic we'll bring you anything we have seen because he was York that would bring ought
to wait say you may be right Ray I get a feeling maybe you're on to something I really do I really
feel that way Bob in texas on ground zero I gly good evening to all of you love your show thank
you I see zero pasta Bowl are a double-edged sword here I have to agree with you I'm glad that
the idea that paul is out in front of the public eye and make people realize that for sure not only
believe what the mainstream media is telling them powell or the mainstream media gets bigger
it gets twisted all around and all use them to music is just going to be making a wide will lose its
punch and become a joke we'll see that's the thing is that they're already there are already
saying this is calling a pathological it's pathological lie they did the official story is that F.C. good
as he did commit suicide and that we should stop playing around with this they're saying this is
the example of a pathological conspiracy theory to create hysteria and I know was creating
history of sure creating a lot of people noticing but it's also got a psychologist get off their butts
to start declaring a pathological conspiracy theory when I say it's me magic just like anything
18

else has been me magic is been there anything from you know the momost suicide messages to
clown world to now this this is something that you know this transpired on the in any kind of
find its way into the mainstream why well it's once again an example of how the left doesn't
have a sense of humor about things they want to act like it's something pathological rather
than you don't go with the idea and trying to make fun of it well I think I always laugh I don't
know the left say is Neil both the left and the right will agree to jeffrey have steen you know
died mysteriously I think what it is it's the media I think the media wants so badly they believe
their hands on these the narrative that wind up once again it's framed anymore this frames
jeffrey epstein as not as not being not is not committing suicide the being murdered then you
know you can take it forever getting their people on the left I believe that Trump had killed
their people on the right that think hillary had been killed but then we understand we don't
figure is White on the Royal family involved today could have been killed because of course
Prince Sanders now has come forward so he said about this situation happening him so this
beam is done more I think to bring people forward to set the record straight at least attempt to
set the record straight the ever has anything else Sanders only sorry because he got caught
that's going on is sorry Yeah I agree you see that's the thing is they're all these side when they
hear esteem did not kill himself they hear either Trump dated or hillary did in this country but
ensured all over the world thinking about the roils what about all the others were on his his jets
flying to flying to have these sexual urges is probably the of these horrible things we're doing so
I mean we'll see what happens with the mean so far as getting a lot Stephen a really really a
movie about the Internet really quickly Yes I am I am a big sign a book to my front yard I think
corner here in town I'm Panasonic would have on my arm male to treat casting didn't kill him so
what note also one more comment clyde ever seen may still be you don't have to he might still
be alive guys that think to a lot of people say it doesn't say what happened to this that's the
point of the need a game plan is see you take it for what it's worth it another thing to Bob to
make it interesting if you're going to put a sign up in your yard usually what people do was just
saying esteemed didn't kill himself they say things like for example you could put it was the
night before Christmas and all through the House not a creature was stirring not even a mouse
the stockings were hung by the chimney with care in hopes of Saint Nicholas would tell
everybody that AB stain didn't kill himself that's what should there be some than I am but you
have to be you know well that's what it is at its highest ticket there is stated that way that's as
I've been watching the as reading something along the lines houses and FC didn't kill himself as
they have the right to know there was a was no word is a place where poles of play or poses
and and the first for you find tell something about you you're going through and also relies
almost as of state didn't kill himself okay and there's another to if you mean the lean back you
look at it from an angle says esteem didn't kill himself there's so many things you can do on the
Internet it but it it's it's bizarre the way this is a good man
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 4 • 11:55 PM

B_JAN_OREG_20

here I don't giving his analysis and he said it was a suicide he says people can understand the
value investigate these things and he said that would be pretty obvious from what firm and
19

student what she was doing what he was planning to kill himself from that you should I leave
he tried to kill himself previously never got a straight story Rotary gator he was attacked and he
just said you try to earn so brian that they took the guy was in jail cell with them out of here he
was by himself so he was traded backup and Secondly of Ferman said that he told his lawyer at
the bit to drink alcohol food suicide watch and he changed the world and he left everything to
his brother Mrs. that's another indication that he was planning to kill himself well in my opinion
can't do that because number one you know he was going to be killed in prison my phone
number the elephant in the room that Mark furman much changes where is the money going
and the previous will so I think he was getting back at somebody this quid pro quo pro pro Paul
Hodes to reach out I know it's hard to say quid pro quo like you said they said the new normal
or Yeah and good he made deals their money and to certain charities and stopped all the
people who were supposed to protect him and he was going to jail and he knew she was she
was going to jail he was going to die Yes so it up back it up he didn't put the money out of that
there is that where he promised it would go every knows he was an informant he had yet dirt
on everybody he could spill that dirtied he wanted to he could have a dead man's switch so
houses biggest fault but yet dead man's switch wouldn't we be having a different discussion
Associated Yeah well I mean they're saying who would want to kill my mom I Yeah a lot of who
have killed American right thank you for calling appreciate it good as right and Camus
Washington high as your ground zero I live it I am with you I Love America I love you today so I
don't believe that gap perhaps gain a bed and here Here's what I'll say it I've been to jail and
I've thought a lot of people and when you're in jail you're separated member yell across
America you're separated by size if seperate you and make you and cells with people your own
ties to prevent huge people being able through to dominate smaller people and the fact that
they put out the media that the's ex-cop huge steroid freaks guy with it and with that game that
an absolute lie and the reason for the alliance to convince people that your dad you're not dead
he had so much power with how much she knows on how many people have been involved in
this child rape act he don't that he had so much power on how much of a I hate that guy Mike
Pence the guy could the guy can deal himself though and Fred Barbash let me go one of my life
let me be free let me disappear and you'll ever hear from me again not I believe what
happened the guy but a lot of people I think believe he got away and he's living a life
somewhere a true an island somewhere he's living high on the hog and being protected but
then again it goes back to eating kill himself but the whole idea that he didn't kill himself he's
alive somewhere or didn't kill himself in the report the corner gave was not the true women
those and other independent parties said that know he died in a different way what the media
is trying through the media have given us that this dichotomy you either believe he killed
himself you believe he was murdered by his ex-cop who was the steroid freaks and in true he
didn't kill himself he was murdered he is alive if they lie completely was that's great the first
person of color.
News Radio KEX
Jan 4 • 7:10 AM

B_JAN_OREG_21

fellow church course highlighting the passage of a recent law allows licensed Texans to carry
weapons into churches and other places of worship that new law passed in the aftermath of
20

the deadly shooting in Texas history also at a church in 2017 the massacre at first Baptist church
in southern Springs killed 26 people a gunman opened fire during the Sunday morning service it
wasn't until local resident Steve Wilford who was armed and outside the church opened fire
The gunman began to retreat as he exited the church a local resident craft his brothel engaged
the suspect I'm no hero I in their mock answers were secretary got there faster while an
autopsy confirmed that Wilfred did shoot the gunman the attacker ultimately killed himself two
gunshot wounds were from the armed citizen one of those was in the leg and the other was in
the torso at the time will foot was concerned neighbor but he has since become a member of
the first Baptist church he thought to protect it.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 4 • 6:24 AM

B_JAN_OREG_22

questions and conspiracy theories abound surrounding the death of Jeffrey Epstein the wealthy
financier who was suspected human sex trafficking at state was found dead in his jail cell last
year an apparent victim of suicide but as those questions remain 60 minutes decided to
investigate and corresponding share Alfonse he previews Sunday’s reports guards found
abstinent approximately 6 33 am and sources say one of them could be overheard saying debris
that steam brief forensic pathologist Dr. Michael button who observed the autopsy for the
esteemed family believes the Jeffrey Epstein died around 4 30 that morning two hours earlier
the guard city came in at 6 30 they found him they call emergency services they tried the cpr
with him he's dead that rather than leave the body there they take the body to an emergency
room his fear is that normal protocol know that that's not normal pro quo the E.M.S. people
normal lee and especially in jail should not move the dead body he's right Bureau of prisons
protocol mandates suicide scene should be treated with the same level of protection as any
crime scene which death has occurred Journal finds is with us now sharing welcome what did
the prison guards do with Jeffrey Epstein body so immediately after they discovered they took
me to the hospital they were trying to do cpr I am about an hour after that hit the hospital they
declared an official at about 7 30 and then using the word when they did the autopsy ecstatic
what we know about what was found and Jeffrey Epstein's jail so it's interesting you would
think it would be sparks right this is a fatter all prison highest security what we have learned
through our reporting is that there was multiple she said there are lots of betting and electrical
cord prescription medicine there's actually notes and paper he had written a note and on
Sunday we'll show you what that man said so in the piece you were saying a guard was same
reason as jeffrey breed the it so this was widely know what Happening in the prisoner who we
are sure we note the way it the prison was set up he wasn't in a secure area where there are
about 8 cells and said we have heard in our sources tell us that the guards to be overheard
same breed that steam brief and what kind of theories that after that the prisoners were in that
secure area all started chanting breed that's deemed breach so the Press they were prisoners
other prisons were aware of what was going on they knew something was going on it's you
know the doors are blocked they probably couldn't see that much is certain they heard the
commotion show with her the said video surveillance American in that area it's a great question
we know that there was video surveillance facing the guard desk which is outside of the area
where he was we are told that theay video facing the cells the video that might have seen this
21

cell door was corrupt and so on the question was in his jail cell latest injury you would expect it
to be sparred I it barely it was in but was a violation very that Salah was a with was an unusual
to find beds she said in there's a very specific Bureau of prisons prior called what's allowed
inside the cell and I think you'll see on Sunday when you see the photos that a lot of bedding
raises a lot of questions as you know it has been reported that he made first failed suicide
attempt weeks earlier and yet his cell was covered in betting in sheets he was the only person
in the South and they were not sheets for lots of people you can see the full report on this
week's 60 minutes on Sunday on your local CBS station.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 4 • 1:40 PM

B_JAN_OREG_23

A.S.R. came to me with this case and said that he was concerned about a very conservative
member of the community we've been calling the user L user Al is an interesting case he's been
using Christianity Subrat for at least 5 years if not longer than last he doesn't have many friends
among the user base there are few topics he's obsessed with but one that really takes a lot of
people offices views on homosexuality being gay itself is San this fewer is somewhat divorced
from traditional Christianity but you find it very popular with event joke goals and independent
fundamentalists baptism United States Sr told me that user L was being harassed by what
seems like 5 or 6 different pro lgbtq Christians accusing him of killing someone else on Reddit
one in particular was very persistent over the course of two months made a new account every
single day just say Hey this is your daily reminder of that user L leads people to suicide we had
no idea what the heck this is was talking about when these folks first started showing up A.S.R.
invited user L into discord chat so we could get to the bottom of this user else send us
something he read on different Reddit forum years ago a short eulogy for a woman he met
online they become friends running very fringe community where she shared videos of quote
unquote Xscape testimonials which stories of Christians who claimed that through conversion
therapy or alleged act of faith defeated these troublesome feelings it's a God or an emotional
week pure and not having the to see emotion all investments with women don't we started to
cross the line me in my heart that based on what I found in her old Reddit posts user else friend
was open about suffering from bipolar disorder and the pain that God was judging her for her
attraction to women things got worse when she divorced her husband and she Unfortunately
committed suicide several years ago And when he saw the news he was noticeably shocked he
and Dr. grant Hill while and we really don't know much about beyond that however some lgbtq
supporting users noticed that ascend said while your philosophy drove this woman to suicide
with whether or not that's true will likely never know what we do know is that study after study
has shown that not only does conversion therapy not work it's deeply harmful to those who
received it lgbtq adolescence that experience conversion therapy or rejection from their
families and faith communities are 8 times more likely to attempt suicide than those from
accepting environment is colorado governor Gerrit Cole is signed a bill Friday that makes
colorado the 18th state to ban gay conversion therapy for minors I will admit that when you
brought this case to us it horrifies me because we agreed to take gone whatever issues seems
pertinent at the time in the forum and frankly this is a really messy scary one know I tracked
down 5 people who had alleged that user L killed his friend and I asked them if they would join
22

us in our discord session to talk with him and hopefully through mediation find some way to
move forward but we never were able to start it because none of them would talk to this guy
and they basically said to me that I should F box of course we're going to tell a huge scare off
it's like you're supporting evil in their minds there was another thing I heard from a couple of
user else critics that stuck with me they said they were doing this not to terrorize Israel but to
warn the young lgbtq creditors who scoured these types of forums looking for advice on how to
reconcile their sexual orientation with their faith I told Essar that as long as people like user L
are allowed to advocate for conversion therapy in our Christianity this form of harassment will
likely persist there are many moderators on Christianity who don't believe that it's wrong to be
yet we would all say that conversion Chacin conversion therapy harbaugh but is barred from to
say that this fundamental disbelief is not a legitimate part of Christianity that it should be
excluded from the discussions it's ultimately the question of censorship in and a place where
they claim that all opinions are welcome that at a certain point I it I sense that we needed to
stop for fear of just making the problem is much worse so we failed and I guess I'm curious to
know what we can learn from this I'm so torn on this like I honestly can't land somewhere on
this my God because the way that society progresses is through push back I people like user Al
that's how we achieve progress and change but at the same time I want everybody to be toxic
everyone that they what we started just shouldn't do is asking marginalized people to do even
more labor to explain themselves to be more civil and be less angry to people who are
fundamentally pressing them so I don't know I don't know how we succeed in a case like that I
don't know the answer and I feel like every single day I'm so try if about it's easy for me to say
that user L was an insurmountable challenge I don't feel that way about the third case Yeah it
could have gone differently and that's why it makes me not field so awesome it's a mixed bag
it's a real mixed bag we had some wins and we had some losses now for our third and final case
after we announced the sub read that we would be providing mediation I heard from a woman
named Melissa Fein.

23

KTVZ (NBC)
Jan 4 • 7:38 AM

B_JAN_OREG_24

we're back on saturday morning, with a new effort to deal with topics that many people find
difficult to talk about, mental health and stress. >> suicide is the third-leading cause of death in
young, black males. that's why one man came up with a new way to get men talking about it in
a more familiar setting. nbc's steve patterson has the story. >> reporter: at picture perfect
barbershop barbershop, just outside little rock, a different kind of banter flies above the
constant buzz of clippers. >> you're just talking. and the next thing you know, you're having a
real conversation. >> reporter: cory parks has been coming here for nearly two years and feels
the shop is one of the few places black men can really open up. >> as a guy, that's what you're
supposed to do. you don't want to be that vulnerable and say, all right, i'm struggling today. >>
in certain areas, you keep stuff from your past, growing up in quote/unquote hoods. >>
reporter: the shop owner has worked hard to connect with his customers. >> it's a judge-free
setting. especially a setting where everyone, come as you are. >> reporter: making his
barbershop a local hangout, where some guys stop in multiple times a week. >> well, welcome.
how is everybody doing today? >> reporter: three years ago, lorenzo lewis created the confess
project, trying to reshape the relationship between black men and mental health. >> i believe a
lot of it is our stigma. the stigma of mental health, realizing that we always thought this was a
white person's issue. >> reporter: studies suggest black adults are 20% more likely than others
to experience serious mental health problems, like depression and anxiety. but dramatically
less likely to seek treatment. between 2001 and 2017, suicide rates shot up about 84%. so far,
the confess project has traveled to shops just like this across nine states, training barbers to
become mental health advocates by learning how to listen and provide feedback when it
matters most. what's the most important thing you come into these shops and tell the barbers?
>> they can be the messenger and getting across to available resources and opportunities that
can help individuals to thrive and have a better quality of life. >> it's not just about exchanging a
haircut for money. it's caring about that person when they leave here and when the next time
they come in. >> thank you, sir. >> reporter: a way to make sure what's on the inside stays just
as fresh as what's on top. >> don't get distracted now. >> reporter: Steve Patterson, NBC news,
Conway, Arkansas.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 4 • 9:06 PM

B_JAN_OREG_25

everyone's throwing one as soon as news of Jeffrey have seen steph broke people were
suspicious Trump suggested that he was killed for having dirt on Hillary Clinton new York city
mayor bill de Blasio and Democratic groups and about Green expressed doubts as well the
opposite hashtag Trumps body count hashtag Clinton body count both trending on Twitter any
mainstream journalists were teasing that he had been murdered teasing the conspiracy not
trying to discredit the e-mail all nobody's saying that he's deaf this weird infections because it's
so weird this become a widespread mean it is a consensus conspiracy theory according to a
rasmussen poll less than a third of Americans believe the esteemed commit suicide have
esteemed means mean anything to the American public are deeply suspicious of the closed
24

rooms and dark fringes seem to be circling controlled world details NFC's death alone in a
camera this room guarded by two unconscious manner per really astonishing Noble and yet
there are psychologists and political analyst the claim the conspiracy theories are pathological
they harm people only the conspiracy theory harm's is the frame narrative and that it that there
is ever travel upon the media decides to manufacture concern and drags out paid spokespeople
the backup their opinions powerful people and intelligence agencies who don't want the
masses probing misdeeds are aware they have a crisis of credibility on their hands for example
the Royal family was pretty much a momma a and Prince Andrew's relationship with Jeffrey
Epstein and fact there was a conspiracy theory but was later proved the fact that the Royal
family had told ABC news not to publish a story early presents story about Prince Sanders
relationship with the Jeffrey have seen and one of his pay for hookers girls were awarded and
whatever she was and so today actually Prince Andrew had made a statement to the BBC is
going to be on the program on the BBC he said Is a presenter said I let my side down by staying
with jeffrey have seen after the billionaire financier was convicted of soliciting a minor for sex
so he's been under fire a lot because of his relationship with abstained now he says he kicks
himself with the decision to stay with sex offenders saying that it was not becoming a member
of the Royal family it reports the BBC news he says the problem was the fact that once he had
been convicted I stayed with him he says that the that's what I keep myself on a daily basis over
because it was not something that was becoming of the Royal family he said we as a rope
family have our highest standards we uphold the highest standards and practices I let my side
down those of you who don't know Prince Andrew has always been looked at as said up a part
of this sex ring was going on with Jeffrey Epstein he's accused of taking part in an orgy with 9
girls but Virginia Roberts who was pictured with his arm around her win over around her waist
she was just 17 years old she claimed their the they had sex on 3 occasions a news site special
on the BBC duty air on Sunday Prince Sanders said I have no recollection of ever meeting this
lady none whatsoever you know this pictures of whether presenter emily made less well under
repeated the claims by by Virginia and then known as Virginia Roberts she's now refugee
numbers go free but now it's it's virginia robert jeffrey it she said that is what emily I said to
anderson says she met you in 2001 she says she died with you dance with you Ed tram
nightclub in london she went on to have sex with you House in spoke about the and then they
said to them you don't remember meeting turned and said no I remember meeting her
Buckingham Palace's brand of the allegations false without any Foundation said that any
suggestion of impropriety with underage minors by the Duke was categorically untrue but it
was the pressure I believe of the whole meme Jeffery Austin detectives that kill himself this I
think prompted Prince Andrew speak or leased to grant interview we've had some concern
tonight a lot of people call me and say they think this means desensitize people to the fact that
Jeffrey Epstein did commit the murders are not a murder he didn't commit the crimes they
committed and that say Jeffrey epstein and kill himself basically silences those who believe he's
still alive that maybe he was you note taking and put on an island somewhere he's hiding out
he's having some witness protection or what have you but I think the idea of Jeffrey F he didn't
kill himself as a meme is there to bring attention to this is a lot of people feel that the other
things like impeachment and other things are just distractions so mean magic has been
employed get people start thinking about this some people worry that maybe looked at as a
joke and and saw one idea your feelings on this you mean the Jeffrey s he did not kill himself
25

mean which of course will be market to for Christmas is going to be on the bottom of beer cans
if not already is showing up in news programs it's kind of an interesting phenomena happening
right now go to gloria Pennsylvania Hi gloria ground zero Yes Yeah everything point appear
before he'd even died I had the feeling if I get killed.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 4 • 11:35 PM

B_JAN_OREG_26

the truth of what happened Putnam as Metropolitan Correctional center proof so the
investigation of hillary I have a question that is creating speculation Angus was involved in
Duncan's care grips with people who are currently taking a life well lived and honestly I don't
know what I'd ever again to get them so upset and jeffrey toobin killed himself while you are
wrong he killed himself people and that's a fact this forward all the gloom so you should lead
them there's a strong President in history of powerful people killed themselves when even
more powerful people have their agendas threat but when jfk killed himself and then lee
harvey Oswalt who' ve been killed killed and so martin luther King day Here's a sketch of what
President lincoln and since the powerful people just can't lose that is in power is close to life in
prison for the rest of their lives one at steve Yeah absolutely I'm quite Viewer with the ground
zero number should call.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 5 • 8:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_14

countless teenage girls last July the wealthy financier was arrested and many of his victims
were looking forward to finally facing him in court weeks after his arrest at steve was found
dead in his jail cell medical examiner concluded the Jeffrey Epstein killed himself since then
conspiracy theories have flourished esteemed was connected to a long list of rich and powerful
people some suspected was killed because of what he knew or what he threatened to tell how
did one of the most high-profile inmates in the country and deb dead in a federal jail after a
five-month investigation 60 minutes has obtained photos some of them graphic autopsy photos
and evidence from inside Jeffrey 16 self this is the cell were Jeffrey Epstein was found on
Saturday morning August 10th 2019 there are dozens of photos taken by the medical
examiner's office that day on the floor and mattress and piles of sheets several uses that
appeared to be fashion from the Orange bed linens are laid out his medicines photographed
but nobody is there a photograph of when he was found dead know there's no photographs
taken of mischief staying in the South Dr Michael Botton observed the four-hour autopsy for
Jeffrey Epstein's brother Mark Prague and a renowned forensic pathologist who is taking
controversial positions over his decades long career is investigating Eckstine to death for his
client do you think there was foul play here here the forensic evidence released so far clear if
Tuffy point much more converter and regulation then the suicide a suicide by hanging I hesitate
to make fine old opinion until all the evidence is in control saying well you're being paid by
Marquette since of course you're gonna say it something suspicious going on that's a
reasonable thing for some people think but our job is to find the truth is just to find out what
his home deciders suicide we share rose still haven't gotten all the information guards found
26

dead sting approximately 6 33 am and sources say one of them could be overheard saying bre
that steamed greet I thought the product by and believes based on the autopsy it sting die
around 4 30 a.m. warning two hours earlier the guard city came in at 6 30 they found him they
call emergency services they tried the cpr with them he's dead but rather than leave the body
barrier they take the body to an emergency room that is that normal protocol I know that that's
not normal protocol the E.M.S. people normal me especially in jail should not move a dead
body he's right Bureau of prison protocol mandates suicide scene should be treated with the
same level of protection as any crime scene in which death has occurred 16 minutes reviewed
hundreds of graphic photographs from the autopsy of Jeffrey abstain and inside his cell there
are two nooses a bit of born sheet tied to the great of a window on the top bunk Bob Dole's in
medicine stand upright below it another piece of fabric is tied through a hole on the bed about
4 feet from the ground did have steen who was nearly 6 feet tall and 185 pounds somehow
lenient and hang himself from the lower bunker we don't know these are the known facts on
July 6 Jeffrey Epstein was booked into the Metropolitan Correctional Center where ncc 8 in
downtown manhattan federal high-security holding facility for inmates awaiting trial suicides at
the MCC are rare the last one was 14 years ago the jail has temporarily housed everyone from
Mexican drug Lord El chapo to a mafia boss John Gotti and fraudster bernie made off and CC is
the worst jail or prison I've ever been to buy for and not a club that it's not a club anything it is
dirty it's an insect infested rodent infested it was built for about 350 houses over 700 inmates
are packed and bruce marquette is the lawyer for at Deen's first cellmate 52 year-old Nick turn
tag Leone a brawny former police officer accused of murdering foremen they shared a cell in
the shu the special housing unit which is considered safer than general population Gels tough
place the rules exist the way they do in society somebody like jeffrey upstream and own elderly
really why male is going have a tough time in general population Eckstine was directing money
to be positive in other inmates , 0 accounts in exchange for his protection sources say because
he feared for his life but the government says esteemed was suicidal and made his first and
failed suicide attempt weeks after he arrived according to court documents on July 20 third a
guard found that stain on the floor of his cell with a strip of a bedsheet around his neck XT
claimed his cellmate need to attend Leone attacked him Epstein says that Nick tried to kill them
Nick says absolutely nothing like that happened of such as Nick says absolutely nothing
happened absolutely nothing happened and no one says that on that tried to kill of steam at
steam was moved to the psych unit and placed on suicide watch but one week later and stay in
at the direction of the ncc psychological staff was taken off suicide watch and required to have
an assigned cellmate this was a monumental failure on all levels and that's why it was field
conspiracy I understand that camera lindsey is a former federal prison warden who should
name share if he wasn't taken off suicide watch in your opinion the leadership of the facility
should have stepped in and said while I appreciate the perspective of view chief psychologist
I'm an override that decision and we're going to leave a stain on suicide watch this special week
subsequent to the suicide attempt he had at staying was moved back to the issue and designed
a new cellmate we reviewed photos an interview jail employees to create this composite of the
area its tier of the shoe has 8 cells usually with two inmates Purcell esteemed sell to 20 was
about 15 feet away and have a set of stairs from the Guard's station with a single locked gate
between them the gate is the only way in or out of the tear lawyers say the day before Epstein
was found dead.
27

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 5 • 8:15 PM

B_JAN_WASH_15

the president of the Union that represents the guards who both now face criminal charges and
pleaded not guilty I absolutely believe that these staff members of being made the scapegoat
because as Jeffrey was just the ftse coming to doesn't think there was any foul play he says
there should be surveillance video to prove it in November Attorney general william barr told
reporters he personally reviewed surveillance video that showed nobody entered the area
where at steen was held but sources say a second camera inside the tier one that could have
seen a sting cell door and the doors of other inmates was not working that night these theories
out there one of them is that it was another inmate you may have killed jeffrey stay with want
you don't play that he was found hanging in his cell he had tried to commit suicide before that
he was a very wealthy man who's looking a lifetime in prison know sometimes cigars this is
gone so absent taken off suicide watch the day before he kills himself his roommate is removed
from the cell the cameras on his tear are not working the guards fell asleep it seems almost
impossible to it I think all of those things could happen that way it does and that's what makes
this so shocking I mean this is a failure on multiple levels do you think there's any way that
Jeffrey Epstein could have been murdered absolutely unequivocally not there was a note in
jeffrey sting cell he wrote the one yard catch me laugh shower stall for one hour knew well the
guard sent me a bird food giant bugs crawling over my Hands no fun Dr Michael bond says if
anyone thought jeffrey epstein was suicidal they wouldn't let him have a ballpoint Pen it could
be used to harm himself or someone else is we just noticed looking at the photos it appears he
had some kind of sleep acting machine you can see along a left home court Yes he's aware of
their wires in accordance President that would have been easy to used to hang oneself within a
few minutes but the key reason Dr. bond King's Jeffrey Epstein's death might be a homicide is
because of the unusual fractures she song in next seems neck there were fractures of the left
the right thyroid cartilage and be left ohio Boni this is an autopsy photo of exchange broken
highway bone a U-shaped bone that sits under the job the part of the tongue attaches to the
thyroid cartilage sits in the front of the neck I have never seen 3 fractures like this in day
suicidal hanging sometimes there's a fracture the higher bone or a fracture of the time were
caught and not very unusual to have to do and not 3 and going over and over 1000 jail hangings
suicides in new York city state prisons over the past 40 or 50 years no one had 3 fractures the
New York City medical examiner's office disputes bonds theory saying the fractures the highway
bone and cartilage can be seen in suicides and homicides they stand firmly behind their finding
of suicide by hanging then there's the two nooses this was someone that was sketched and
included in the autopsy by the medical examiner presumably because they thought it was used
Epstein’s death.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 5 • 7:25 AM

B_JAN_WASH_16

I will break off questions and conspiracy theories abound surrounding the death of Jeffrey
Epstein the wealthy financier who was suspected in human sex trafficking at state was found
dead in his jail cell last year an apparent victim of suicide but as those questions remain 60
28

minutes decided to investigate and corresponding share Alfonse he previews Sunday’s reports
guards found that staying in approximately 6 33 am and sources say one of them could be
overheard saying Greeny that's deemed brief forensic pathologist Dr Michael Baden who
observed the autopsy for the esteemed family believes the jeffrey Epstein died around 4 30
that morning two hours earlier the guard city came in at 6 30 they found him they call
emergency services the tried the cpr with them he's dead but rather than leave the body there
they take the body to an emergency room with is that normal protocol I know that that's not
normal pro quo the E.M.S. people norm believe it and especially in jail should not move dead
body he's right Bureau of prison protocol mandates suicide scene should be treated with the
same level of protection as any crime scene in which a deficit occurred Karen often see is with
us now Chad welcome what what did the prison guards do with jeffrey epstein body so
immediately after they discovered they took him to the hospital I they were trying to do cpr I
am about an hour after that hit the hospital they declared an official at about 7 30 and using
the word when they did the autopsy the extent what we know about what was found and
Jeffrey Epstein's jail so it's interesting you would think it would be sparks Frank this is a fatter all
prison highest security out what we have learned through our reporting is that there was
multiple she said there are lots of betting an electrical cord prescription medicine there's
actually notes and a paper he wrote me a note and on Sunday will show you but Bettman said
so in the piece you are saying that a guard was same breed and jeffrey breeds do it so this was
widely known what was happening in the prisoner who we are sure we note the way did the
prison was set up he wasn't in a secure area where there are about 8 cells and say we have
heard in our sources tell us that the guards to be overheard saying bringing gusty breeze and
what kind of theories that after that the prisoners were in that secure area all started chanting
breed that steve breeze so the prison the prisoners other prisoners were aware of what was
going on they knew something was going on it's you know the doors are blocked they probably
couldn't see that much certainly they are committed the with there was a video surveillance of
Americans and in that area it's a great question we know that there was video surveillance
facing the guards to ask which is outside of the area where he was we are told that these video
facing the cells the video that might have seen this cell door was corrupt and so the question
was his jail cell means you would expect it to be a Spartan it fairly it was in but was a violation
there in that Salah was it with was unusual to find she said it there's a very specific Bureau of
prisons for called what's allowed inside the cell and I think you'll see on Sunday when you see
the photos that a lot of the bedding raises a lot of questions as you know it's been reported
that he made first failed suicide attempt weeks earlier and yet his cell was covered in betting in
sheets he was the only person in the South and there were not sheets for her lots of people you
can see the full report on this week's 60 minutes on Sunday on your local CBS stations.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 5 • 6:30 AM

B_JAN_WASH_17

as we reported a couple months ago suicides increased by 33% in the United States over the
last 20 years now the federal communications Commission has started the process to create a
three-digit number similar to 9.1 that connects to the National suicide Prevention hotline
number would be 9 88 what's the plan receives final approval and is put into service that could
29

take about 18 months in the meantime the suicide hotline number remains 800 to 7 3 talk
claims a fake news are the headlines a lot but it appears the teenagers are very good at telling
the difference between real and fake study from stanford University shows that high school
students often believe whatever web page says for example more than a Half of high schoolers
were fooled by a Facebook video claiming to show voter fraud in United States when it was
actually shot in Russia and finally can magic mushrooms be used to treat depression a new
study finds that the active ingredient suicide and can be used safely under supervision the study
presented to the American college of 0 Psycho pharmacology finds it so aside been can treat
depression in just a few sessions when combined with therapy similar to the way that ecstasy is
being used for PTSD and Mets' medical note this week more in a moment.
AM 860
Jan 5 • 7:35 PM

B_JAN_OREG_27

… Mark obviously did bad things stand took money from people you're very blunt about that he
put himself in a hole he took his own life I want to start with we have a message for you anyone
who's in that dark place where they don't see a way out suicide is a permanent solution to a
temporary problem and it's never a good choice is part of your book intended to convey that
Yeah absolutely I am very proud that we need to be talking about you've got to reach out to
people and married this movement she Hey team with a suicide that it's Associated with suicide
and I just we have to get away it Cooper and I just we give anything to have my husband back
that so many Friends were like I wish he would call me I wish she would troll way but how so I
anybody you feeling that I would encourage you reach out to someone who is a key this people
are there to help in fact one of the astonishing thing about off a beautiful life are a number of
wonderful people in your life I want to point to molest in particular who had been working at
young life at the University of Texas…
KONG-SEA
Jan 6 • 7:14 PM

B_JAN_WASH_18

on the news today, conspiracy theories continue about jeffrey epstein's deaf for the first time,
we are getting a look at images taken inside his cell including the noose he allegedly used to
hang himself. we should warn you some of the images in this story are disturbing. >> reporter:
these photos were taken inside jeffrey epstein's jail cell, shortly after he was found dead. there
were two new says, made from orange sheets and bedding. now brace yourself. we are about
to show you the autopsy photos which were exclusively aired on 60 minutes last night. it may
be upsetting to some viewers. >> 60 minutes reviewed hundreds of graphic photographs on the
autopsy of jeffrey epstein. >> reporter: they showed a wound around his neck. former new york
city medical examiner there, michael baden was hired by the epstein family to observe the
obsessive. he says in his opinion, if epstein really hang himself, the wound would be much
higher. >> and there were multiple fractures of the adam's apple that are more indicative of a
homicidal strangulation than a suicidal struggle he should. >> reporter: a note found in
epstein's cell amounted to a list of complaint about guards and conditions. a guard kept me in a

30

locked shower stall for one hour. and, "giant bugs crawling over my hand. no fun." he wrote.
>>> the new york medical examiners office is standing by the ruling that epstein killed himself.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 6 • 6:30 AM

B_JAN_WASH_19

the question remains what exactly happened inside manhattan jail cell where convicted sex
offender Jeffrey Epstein was found dead the medical examiner in the case concluded that XT
killed himself by hanging since then conspiracy theories have flourished that maybe upstate
was killed because of what he knew or threaten to tell about some of the rich and powerful
people he was connected with 60 minutes correspondent and cher Al Homsi has more on July 6
Jeffrey Epstein was booked into the Metropolitan Correctional Center where ncc 8 in
downtown manhattan a federal high-security holding facility for inmates awaiting trial suicides
at the MCC are rare the last one was 14 years ago the jail has temporarily housed everyone
from mexican drug Lord El chapo to a mafia boss John Gotti.
News Radio KEX
Jan 6 • 2:48 PM

B_KAN_OREG_28

An hour right now is saying that said Jeffrey Epstein did not kill himself and people where each
other they're basing simply admit the fact that they don't like the hillary tell them right now
well I guess that's exactly what happened here good news Dr. Michael Baden you may
remember him he had a show on mojo for a while now many was O.J. O.J. guy Yeah we want
him he was he was he's a guy who kind of breaks down you various murders and says why he
thinks somebody did not kill themselves or whatever he was brought in to take a look at the
debt F steam and he says you know what didn't kill himself is because of the unusual fractures
Kaesong in next seems neck there were fractures of the left the right word cartilage and the left
I would bone this is an autopsy photo of Eckstine broken high your bone a U-shaped bone that
sits under the job the part of the tongue attaches to the thyroid cartilage sits in the front of the
neck I have never seen 3 fractures like this in me suicidal hanging sometimes is fractured the
higher bone or a fracture of the tyrant calmly and not very unusual to have to do and not 3 and
going over and over 1000 jail hanging suicides in new York city state prisons of the past 40 or 50
years no one had 3 fractures I would tell Hillary did do with Bono wasn't Trump is small and
from the angle of this fracture it had to be someone of Hillary stature and Saadi sure and its and
and also you can tell from the fractured that whoever did it was wearing a pantsuit Dr. Michael
Baden did a bad news is not say who he thought that he did not accuse Hillary Clinton he's
someone that once seemed to indicate that he thought that this would maybe not isis aside
stuff my God I some pictures of the jail cell after wars and his immense him they had on last
night they had pictures of empty land on a gurney the dead and just Wow that okay what's
right you go and Dr. money was 60 minutes.

31

News Radio KEX
Jan 6 • 10:22 PM

B_JAN_OREG_29

Let's go through what happened last night on 60 minutes with jeffrey epstein gets interesting
because he really the story was out there for such a long time conservatives complained about
it for years and years and years jeffrey have seen was you know the normal heart was bill
clinton he is hanging out with and nobody in the media cared about the story no official we got
to a point in which the guy who gave a sweetheart deal to EPS team was in the Trump
administration at that point thousands of reporters swamp to the scene who odd to figure out
exactly what happened and so the reporting on isis been really really good in the miami Herald
probably the top of the list but there's been some excellent reporting on this and now the it
does seem like the journalist have crossed the line as we know now they care and I'm sure it
was all of the journalist I think some of the journalists didn't care I think it was all of their
bosses he either didn't care of terror were being told not to care we will switch the james
o'keefe star Worry where they were able to get to that one reporter who he was complaining
about not being a look at jessy story of the month me years ago Yeah see we know that as well
so the ceases 60 minutes was a big thing on to basically do jeffrey epstein kill himself and one
guest they have is a guy who was the Uzi aid doctor who was paid by Epstein's brother to figure
out the truth so realize there's motivation here into telling you that be different this team
didn't is also a credible witness Yeah he's done many many of these these very credible so
certainly one clip from Mike here on from Dr Michael bowed in his name he is a fait accompli as
he was ae this is a guy who's paid by asking family kind of figure look into what really happened
here with us do you think there was foul play here and the forensic evidence released so far
clear Pepsi point much more to murder and strangulation then the suicide a suicide by hanging I
hesitate to make a fine old opinion until all the evidence is in people saying well you're being
paid by markets seem so course you're gonna saying it something suspicious going on that's a
reasonable thing for some people think but our job is to find the truth is I just find that with his
homicide or suicide we're still haven't gotten all the information and this is not a guy who
would have dealt with situations like this getting thousands of them serious talking about how
rare it is to see the types of fractures from jeffrey jeffrey epstein Let's I have never seen 3
fractures like this in me suicidal hanging sometimes is fractured the higher bone or a fracture of
the tyrant cartilage and not very very unusual to have to move on and not 3 and going over and
over 1000 jail hangings suicides in new York city state prisons over the past 40 or 50 years no
one had 3 fractures.
KBNZ
Jan 6 • 6:41 AM

B_JAN_OREG_30

new 60 minutes" investigation released new details in the death of jeffrey epstein. a warning
now, some of the photos you are about to seen are graphic. in august, epstein was found dead
in his jail cell. the new york city medical office ruled it a suicide by hanging and stands by that.
according to reports. dr. michael baden, forensic, coroner says he sees things differently. >> the
forensic evidence released so far including autopsy toy much more to murder and strangulation
than the suicide and suicidal hanging. >> dr. boden points to unusual fractures he saw in
32

epstein's neck. he says he's never seen fractures like that in a suicide hanging. coming up more
on the "60 minutes" investigation. we will talk with dr. michael boden.
KBNZ
Jan 6 • 7:35 AM

B_JAN_OREG_31

good morning. >> you observed the entire four-hour alms of jeffrey epstein? >> i did. >> what
stood out to you you the most in that? >> what stood out to me the most what is that the
ligature mark was made after a few hours. he had been dead for a few hours at the time he was
discovered. and that there were multiple fractures of the adam's apple, the thyroid cart lamb
and the hyoid bone that are more indicative of a halomicid ra stiongulat an thanui scidal
strangulation. >> so in a thousand cases that you reviewed in the new york state prison system
since at ka. >> right. >> you have never seen a three-bone fracture in a suicide? ? >> in a
suicide, eccorrt. >> the new york examiner says we have seen it and we thinka it's suicide. >> so
i have been reviewing all the records insurance attica when a suicide occurs, we have in new
york state prince haven't seen that kind of fracture, number one. number two, maybe our
experiences are different, but this certainly suggests that it d coul be a dehomici. i>> butt'srt
impoant, though, to point out, too, because "60 te minus" also talked to other pathologists who
agreed with the suicide findings. you are being paid by the epstein family. isn't it in your best
interest to go along with what they behalieve ppened? >> they don't believe that happened.
they want to know what happened. i think mr., the brother or the estate would just as soon
have this to be a suicide, because there is no advantage to them to be a homicide. mark epstein
is now concerned about a homicide if his brother was killed because he knew too much, is he
also at jeopardy? are other peoplet a jeopardy? >> they don't suspect that their brother was
murdered? >> well, the autopsy findings they feel their brother may have been murdered. as a
medical examiner. when i was chief examiner in new york city, because i was on the jail suicide
doesn't moon i was on the side of the city or the state. stwre to call it the way we see it. it
doesn't matter if i'm paid by new york city or the family. >> i want to go back to the point you
made. we don't know the position of epstein's bid to when he was found dead? t'>> thas
eccorrt. >> t ahat'sru ccial question. >> because the marks on the neck is not at all typical for a
hanging/suicide. hanging shv/suicide 90%f othe ti heme t nre areo fractures, yb mae 10%, 15%
they cab hyoid or thyroid fracture.yo uon de have 37 fractures with the oweightf the body on
the ligature. have you to have a lot more pressure by ligature or by hands to get those
fractures. >> you also say that the wounds on epstein's neblg and we have pictures of -- neck
and we have pictures of those. we caution you. these are disturbing pictures. do not match the
noose that was found in his cell? >> that's right. there are a number things on the noose, it's a
narrow noose and there is a little imprint on one of the noos's pressure or the mark that could
not have come from a smooth thing. thttat's aached a part of the noose. it's on the neck
adjacent on the skin that looks more like an imprint from a rope rather than from a smooth bed
sheet and there is nothing on the bed sheet that blood or that would indicate it was around his
neck and the fbi or the medical examiner would have done swabs for dna on the lig cure. whose
dna is on it? was it epstein alone ore epstein and somebody else? >> it's so important because
we are talking about justice for his alleged victims. >> that's right. >> the question of did he
have other stories? >> there is no advantage to the family whether it's a homicide or suicide.
33

there is no money involved. >> they just want the truth. >> that's right. >> thank you very much
for being with us. >> thank you.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 6 • 12:55 PM

B_JAN_WASH_20

… he didn't kill himself just like jeffrey it's just like jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself you know I
used to be in the habit every Sunday night I would watch 60 minutes on CBS I don't trust CBS
but I would watch 60 minutes on CBS television I didn't watch last night I should have because
they did a story on jeffrey Epstein who official laid the official finding is that the man was then
one of the most closely guarded Fed role detention centers in America it's in manhattan in new
York city and he was sitting there in his cell he was supposed to be watched over by guards he
was supposed to be we're supposed to be cameras on him and somehow he managed to hang
himself and this amazing series were told this amazing series of coincidences happen all of the
guards were taking a nap time all of the cameras failed to work and somehow Jeffrey Epstein
managed to get his hands on material to hang himself without anybody being aware of it until
he was Stone cold dead I guess the story on 60 minutes showed they finally released the job the
ligature they call it the the clock from these bed sheets that he allegedly used to hang himself I
know it's a little bit grotesque but jeffrey Epstein ended up with a very bloody neck where this
ligature when around his neck now ordinarily if you were hanged herself that ligature if you can
imagine putting a knotted rope around your throat and pulling up you would ordinarily go very
high go right up on your channel jeffery Epstein is marks on his neck which were bloody we're
much much lower has made it his sons also had 3 boca broken bones in his throat they also are
not typical hangings but they are typical when somebody has been strangled and killed by being
strangled will then they showed the ligature that they recovered from the cell a guard said he
had used a pair of scissors to cut that piece of fabric to get jeffrey Epstein down only the
ligature there now showing does And have any cuts on it it has not been cut with scissors all
and there's one other problem jeffrey Epstein who allegedly killed himself by strangling himself
with this ligature had a very bloody neck from being hanged but the bed sheet he supposedly
hang himself with didn't show any signs of any blood whatsoever so even more reasons to
suspect that Jeffrey Epstein did not kill himself.
AM 860
Jan 6 • 7:32 AM

B_JAN_OREG_32

… knowing that he didn't kill himself I think you're raised in an obscene didn't kill himself there
last night to write by the way 60 minutes to the graphic segment on and steams death showing
autopsy pictures and pictures of his jail cell in the of his neck was broken and with and auto
listen all I do is watch forensic files so I don't know what I'm talking about when it comes to
help people get strangle but it sure looks like somebody strangled them to me that's a weird I
don't know what people look like you've been hanged but that is really grotesque the way I am
the way he's got this you almost bloody indentation around his neck below his Adam's Apple.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)

B_JAN_WASH_21

34

Jan 6 • 12:17 PM
students at sunnyland returned to school today without their beloved principal. investigators
are still combing for clues after the principal was killed, possibly by her husband. saturday
friends and family remembered her not only as loving and caring but as an authentic person
who possessed the ability to live wholeheartedly. >> you come to school and see her smile and
her passion towards children. she was a wonderful principal. >> her husband was charged this
weekend with murder and remains in the intensive care unit at a hospital after attempting to
kill himself after the shooting.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jan 6 • 6:35 AM

B_JAN_WASH_22

students returning to school today without their beloved principal. investigators are combing
for clues now after he was found dead. students are still struggling with her death. investigators
believe that the principal was killed by her husband. he remains in serious condition in the icu
at seattle harborview radical center. police say he attempted to kill himself following the
shootings.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 6 • 9:15 PM

B_JAN_OREG_33

disappointed in this I would say this is what the rest of us feel liked it every other awards show
toto later being lectured to by a bunch of people who don't know what the real world is all
about O one how about some of the jokes for check this season two was on the why he's so in
the end to the office he didn't kill himself just like jeffrey Epstein why I'm playing the Yeah was
like holy smokes very end the Joe friend he's like the Shah I know he's your friend I don't but
this was fun for me because I just watched the 60 minutes piece a jeffrey Epstein which was
pretty fascinating years here Yeah but they say Yeah so they got they got photos of the autopsy
of this guy a billionaire child sex trafficker who allegedly killed himself while he was in jail and
showed a lot of things that we're pretty weird this piece they talked to Dr Michael Bob we've
heard from him before he's working with that Steve's brother he doesn't really think that the
evidence is overwhelming that have Epstein killed himself we talked about a hero whole lot
different facets of this that he was talking about I thought was very even-tempered you know
he wasn't this is terror Goal Oh my gosh there's no way he killed himself he is pointing out there
are a lot of inconsistencies the like talking about prison protocol how that wasn't followed even
after the guards found at teen's body which he said was about two hours after esteem died me
the guard city came in at 6 30 they found him they call emergency services they tried to do cpr
with him he's dead that rather than leave the body there they take the body to an emergency
room Kass is that normal protocol to know that that's not normal protocols the E.M.S. people
normal Louis and especially in jail should not move the dead body is there a photograph of
when he was found and no there's no photographs taken of missteps stinging in this hour Yeah
okay it's God to periodic none of us are experts in the field but you wouldn't have the
ambulance come there we'll move the dead body and take a man Yeah they said well there
35

were people reporting error the other prisoners saying no he can't he's not breathing or
whatever prisoners overheard the guards saying brief jeffrey brief but he his time of death was
like 4 30 a.m. they found at 6 30 right so he would be dead and absolutely not move the body
because you want to get to the bottom of investigation a part of that investigation would
involve taking photos of how you found Jeffrey Epstein Yes and the camera the inside that part
of the present that would show us what the cell and was malfunctioning that right and two
guards assigned to them they just happen to be taking the night off basically we have viewers
surfing the web and they were tired they're overworked you heard the Union guy they are
overworked that's why they need low nappy who take so we get to the next part well Yeah he is
Dr biden also pointed out that there were things and Jeffrey Epstein sell that would have been
easier for him to use to kill himself in the bed sheets he supposedly used like yet a ballpoint Pen
and had all sorts of little cave walls around the it appears he had some kind of sleep acting
machine you can seal an electrical corey Yes they are aware of their wires and chords President
that would have been easy to be used to hang oneself within a few minutes Yeah but they're
saying he used his feet but then the pictures we're getting back you have a photo from the
autopsy Michelle Martin of bruising and blood near the base of that steam snack and they
compare that to the picture of a bedsheet noose he supposedly used to kill himself Yeah what I
see here is that this moves doesn't match the ligature far Mark it's whiter than the stood naked
eye it looks like there's some blood here and it doesn't look there's any blood on the try this
looks like a clean news that was never used to compress anybody's neck there's also some the
striking about the photos the womb with he's down here you think if somebody hung
themselves the room would be maybe appear here Yes Most hangings said especially free
hangings the ligature slides up beneath the would be year that drove bown the mandible here
it's in the middle of the neck Dr biden says the world strayed across and it is more common
when a victim strangled by wire court ordered what Yeah I know there's other things I mean I
realize this guy I mean he's getting paid by it seems brother who so you know is there some
bias in there you could make that argument that's fine whatever but this thing of the picture
doesn't look like she was around his neck it does look like it was like a wire as some people
would say well if the bed she was way bad it could act more like a wire here I haven't seen
anybody say that but that doesn't make any sense didn't But the other parties did if he was
killed by somebody else did they have before thought to have multiple nooses to bring in their
because that I could you have to be really smart to expect that I guess Yeah because you saw
the one pictured there like what for different uses Yeah like he was trying out different ones so
if you were going to kill you would you know I got to leave for others because they got really
make it look like this guy had tried several different ways someone was able to get into that
facility and kill one day and I would assume they would have before Werth then have the
foresight to tune do something like that Yes and a lot of people like Nah you never seen that
done before I don't again man I don't know those are just questions I have my head we were 4
declines after a thorough there's more on that we'll get to a little bit later on as far as be a
situation where the run we need an expert to kind of let us know what's going on with the
truth.

36

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 6 • 10:10 AM

B_JAN_WASH_23

60 minutes decided to look into whether or not jeffrey esteem and killed himself he didn't and
he didn't kill himself he did to get okay you're on that side I'm going to say it's not actually
deadly decided taken that I think it was okay he is they bring in aid forensic pathologist Dr
Michael Baden who says it really leans more towards foul play the forensic evidence police so
far a clear vantage point much more murders and strangulation of suicides and suicidal hanging
I hesitate to make a fine old opinion until the evidence is in the hole it doesn't and while she's
in the middle of it but doesn't Some hesitation I don't you're being paid by Mark extensive of
course you're going to say they did something suspicious is so or not that's a reasonable thing
for some people think but our job is to fun with the truth is just to find out whether a homicide
suicide we're still haven't gotten all the information this is a great story because it has every
single element unique right you got jeffrey have seen who is a pedophile who surrounds
himself and collected high-profile individual which she took pictures and video of involved in
various activities involving young girls tris well we know that he has pictures the pictures we've
seen yet are these guys posing with an arm around them at a party at his House might not do it
in my dome he complained of a fit is a that doesn't that doesn't necessarily mean a lot like big
of for the injured so the 60 minutes line that all up says it just seems strange he was on suicide
watch they took off suicide watch she's supposed to have a cellmate and his cellmate was
removed the two guys to check on every half hour one of them was surfing the Internet I'm
sure working on his doctor degree and the other one was asleep somehow the cameras were
not on all this other stuff all lines out to go say I saw an umbrella on the grassy Knoll opening
close a couple of times just as the limousine came around carrying jfk so everything is in place
for a great conspiracy to go on and on and on and on a cottage industry having the people who
were looking for States to supermarket checkout counter book publishing deal Yeah they are
lining up on this one because this is going to be book after book after book should be checked
on every 30 minutes it's my understanding based on the documents an eye exam the two
officers that were working in the special housing unit allegedly falsified records and did not do
any rounds for approximately 8 hours just like they were paid to how big of a deal that's a huge
huge deal this is one of the most basic operational aspects of managing a jail or prison I will say
this in defense of the fact that jeffrey epstein did kill himself you have every reason to get rid of
the guy.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 6 • 10:25 AM

B_JAN_OREG_34

60 minutes piece on jeffrey Epstein last night the part where he was paying off different
inmates Yeah because he thought for sure he was going to get killed in their so again with that
evan we can get more into that later the whole thing about suicide because 60 minutes if
you're drilled down was saying Yeah it might have been suicide it might not have them yet
there's some evidence here that would suggest otherwise keep you gotta leave a lot different
story he's in order to believe he killed himself Yes and would you somehow your mind make it
makes sense that he would be paying off inmates to protect himself if he really wanted to die
37

right I guess maybe if you just didn't want to die in a certain way but it is just another curious
question with that whole entire case.
KOBI
Jan 6 • 6:36 AM

B_JAN_OREG_35

coming up.... suicide is one of the leading causes of death for youth... the signs you can look out
for.. and help your child avoid suicidal thoughts.and later... on a much lighter note... history was
made at the golden globe awards last night... a look at some of the highlights... including a
connection to oregon. but as we go to but as we go to break... a look at this morning's lowest
gas according to gas buddy dot com. stay with us for more nbc5 news at sunrise. it's a difficult
topic to talk about... but suicide is the third leading cause of death for 10 to 14-year olds.
it's a difficult topic to talk about... but suicide is the third leading cause of death for 10 to
14-year olds. in this week's edition of better health... we're sitting down with asante health
expert beth coker and doctor stephen hubbard to discuss youth suicide.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 6 • 6:53 PM

B_JAN_OREG_36

preparing the community to help suicidal persons. they are training 80 new instructors will be
able to provide regular suicide response training in cities all over lane county. instructors will be
traded teach qpr, short for question, persuade, refer. this type of training house people
effectively identify suicidal thoughts in individuals, persuade them to get help and before them
to agencies that can help them. suicide prevention coordinator rodger brubaker says the
trainees are free and open to people of all backgrounds and professions. >> anybody in the
community in any kind of occupation in any kind of role, because that is where we get the most
coverage and create that sense of community in which people see themselves as actually
responsible for suicide prevention, rather than simply all the professionals.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 6 • 8:08 PM

B_JAN_OREG_37

king county public health is working to prepare the community to help suicidal people. they will
have instructors to will be able to provide instructions. they will be teaching qpr, short for
question, persuade, refer. this type of training helps people identify suicidal thoughts in people.
persuade them to get help and refer them to agencies that can help them. suicide pension
coordinator rodger brubaker says it is open to people of all backgrounds and occupations. >>
anybody in the community, any kind of profession, that is where we will get the most coverage
and create that sense of community in which people see themselves as actually responsible for
suicide prevention, rather than simply other professionals. >> the instructor training will start
on january 14th. he says that around much, the community can expect to see this training
happening every other weekend lane county.

38

KVAL (CBS)
Jan 6 • 6:06 PM

B_JAN_OREG_38

Free training through lane county public health will help the community respond to a suicidal
person. >> these trainings will be available in even more cities. alex hasenstab is joining us live
in the studio. >> reporter: there's going to be more of them, thanks to some additional
workforce. today, i spoke with a coordinator about what these trainings offer the community.
this room at the lane county public health building is being used for an important training. >> it
is called qpr. question, persuade, refer. it is a basic introduction suicide prevention. >> reporter:
this nationwide method of suicide invention prepares people to deal with emergency crisis
situations. >> we provide people with the language, skills, the body language, behaviors that
they would need to show compassion and support somebody. >> reporter: people can identify
suicidal thoughts from people that may not be obvious. public health has wooded these
trainings that has no cost to the community for years. >> with the sole purpose of spreading
this particular training all throughout lane county. >> reporter: he says that the training offers
help on how to prevent people with suicidal thoughts. the important part is the questioning. >>
asks someone. are you thinking of killing yourself? speak openly. >> reporter: he says that at far
as saving lives, knowing qpr is valuable as knowing cpr. he says after they have their new
instructions trained, they could see qpr trainings as often as two weeks.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 6 • 5:08 PM

B_JAN_OREG_39

king county public health is working to prepare the community to help suicidal people. they will
have instructors to will be able to provide instructions. they will be teaching qpr, short for
question, persuade, refer. this type of training helps people identify suicidal thoughts in people.
persuade them to get help and refer them to agencies that can help them. suicide pension
coordinator rodger brubaker says it is open to people of all backgrounds and occupations. >>
anybody in the community, any kind of profession, that is where we will get the most coverage
and create that sense of community in which people see themselves as actually responsible for
suicide prevention, rather than simply other professionals. >> the instructor training will start
on january 14th. he says that around much, the community can expect to see this training
happening every other weekend lane county.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 6 • 5:38 PM

B_JAN_OREG_40

free trainings through lane county public health help the community respond to a suicidal
person. these trainings will be available in even more cities this year. alex hasenstab has that
story. >> reporter: this room at the lane county public health building is being used for an
important training. >> it is called qpr, that stands for question, persuade, refer. it is a basic
introduction to his side prevention. >> reporter: rodger brubaker says this nationwide method
of suicide prevention prepares people to deal with emergency crisis situations. >> we provide
people with the language, the skills, the buddy lavish, the behaviors that they would need to
39

shop compassionately in support somebody. >> reporter: the training also helps people identify
suicidal thoughts in individuals that may not always be obvious. >> thoughts of hopelessness, or
, if they feel like they are a burden to other people, giving away prized possessions. >> reporter:
lane county public health has also these trainings at no cost to the community for years, but
starting next week, they are training 18 people, officials and others, to become qpr instructors
themselves. >> with the sole purpose of spreading this particular training, qpr, all throughout
geographic lane county, from florence to mckenzie bridge. >> reporter: zoe offer training offers
help and how to persuade people with suicidal thoughts to get help and referrals for places that
can help. he says the important part is the questioning. >> ask someone, you thinking of killing
yourself to speak openly and directly about suicide.
KLSR (FOX)
Jan 6 • 7:10 PM

B_JAN_OREG_41

Coming up at 7:00, a new training being offered in our area to help people better understand
those dealing with suicidal thoughts. we have more on that and your full forecast free trainings
through lane county public >>> welcome back. free training through the health and community
response to a suicidal individual. developments reveal the trainings will be available in more
cities this year. alex hoss and stuff joins us with what is new in these trainings. >>> it is being
used for important training now. >> it sounds for question, persuade and refer. it is a basic
introduction to suicide prevention. >> they say the nationwide prevention prepares people to
deal with emergency crisis situations. >> we provide people with the language and skills
necessary. as well as the body language behaviors that they need to show up compassionately
to support someone. >> it helps to identify suicidal thoughts in individuals that may not always
be obvious. >> thoughts of hopelessness or if they feel like they are burden on other people.
giving away prized possessions. >> they posted trainings at no cost to the community for years.
starting next week, they are training 18 people, professionals and others to become qpr
instructors themselves. >> the sole purpose is to train people throughout from florence to
mckenzie bridge. >> they say the training offers help on how to persuade people with suicidal
thoughts to get help and referrals replacing them to places where they can get help. >> the
important part is asking someone. speak openly and directly. and bluntly about suicide. >> as
far saving lives, knowing qpr is just as valuable as knowing cpr.
News Radio KEX
Jan 6 • 7:16 PM

B_JAN_OREG_42

Let's go through what happened last night on 60 minutes with Jeffrey Epstein gets interesting
because he really the story was out there for such a long time conservatives complained about
it for years and years and years Jeffrey Epstein was you know the normal heart was bill clinton
he is hanging out with and nobody in the media cared about the story no official we got to a
point in which the guy who gave a sweetheart deal to Epstein was in the Trump administration
at that point thousands of reporters swamp to the scene who odd to figure out exactly what
happened and so the reporting on isis been really good in the miami Herald probably the top of
the list but there's been some excellent reporting on this and now the it does seem like the
40

journalist have crossed the line as we know now they care and I'm sure it was all of the
journalist I think some of the journalists didn't care I think it was all of their bosses he either
didn't care of terror were being told not to care we will switch the james o'keefe star Worry
where they were able to get to that one reporter who he was complaining about not being a
look at jessy story of the month me years ago Yeah see we know that as well so the ceases 60
minutes was a big thing on to basically do jeffrey epstein kill himself and one guest they have is
a guy who was the Uzi aid doctor who was paid by Epstein's brother to figure out the truth so
realize there's motivation here into telling you that be different this team didn't is also a
credible witness Yeah he's done many of these very credible so certainly one clip from Mike
here on from Dr Michael bowed in his name he is a fait accompli as he was ae this is a guy
who's paid by asking family kind of figure look into what really happened here with us do you
think there was foul play here and the forensic evidence released so far clear Pepsi point much
more to murder and strangulation then the suicide a suicide by hanging I hesitate to make a
fine old opinion until all the evidence is in people saying well you're being paid by markets
seem so course you're gonna saying it something suspicious going on that's a reasonable thing
for some people think but our job is to find the truth is I just find that with his homicide or
suicide we're still haven't gotten all the information and this is not a guy who would have dealt
with.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 6 • 12:40 PM

B_JAN_WASH_24

the Department is scrambling to find an appropriate placement a foster home relative and they
run out of time those in most situations after you know one or two nights ago I'm usually
identifies an appropriate moment and a child is placed am this is not just them a shortage of
foster homes now so what we can we noted about 282 children experienced these hotels days
this past year and of those roughly 200 experienced very short stays of a few days in a hotel for
a more permanent placement was identified the other scenario is those other 80 kids and what
we see is these children very often have mental health issues or behavior issues perhaps
developmental disabilities duo involvement in the juvenile Justice system so they have much
more acute needs and those who very often those children who might disrupt from a Foster
home there might have been an assault in a foster home there could be I guess so are suicidal
behavior or ideation that result in them being pulled out of that loss exactly and now a
prominent struggling to find placement to meet the needs of a child with much higher degree
of supervision and care I am and we just don't have enough of those types of resources within
our child welfare system okay so we're talking about dozens about 80 kids you see a need this
high-level of supervision care and why it is that not to be found so I guess if there's a silver
lining in this guy I do believe this is something we can facts because we are talking about report
identified the door 40 children that span over 10 10 more nights in a hotel not I can't not
consecutive but they were cycling through it and then that preps another 40 they had 6 to 9
nights in a hotel so we're talking about a relatively small number of children you'd so this is
something I think we can fix and in governor Inslee's proposed budget for the coming session
he provides funding for 12 noon short term emerging type placement as well as 21 a new longterm replacement beds to meet the needs of children with significant mental health behavioral
41

or develop mental health needs okay so how big a problem is this we say kids spending nights
in hotels and how does that how does that affect these children so on one hand you when I
look at it so it seems fairly benign hotels are nicer America it's a clean room and bad bet you
have to look at it from a child's perspective in particular these 80 children you said that I
described the That are have they've suffered the trauma been removed from their family
YouTube allegations of abuse and Glaxo this is their background very often that they've
experienced multiple placement settings move from foster home to foster homer to relative
and then back to foster home perhaps even been placed in group care and some of these
children have been sent out a statement return to Washington state so they have a very rude
they've lacked a lot of stability and then there is a crisis of them that leads to them disrupting
from their most recent placement and now they're waiting in D.C. Wyeth office with her
caseworker children yet and family Yes they have no idea where they're going Max so in that
context we have a child or you that is extremely vulnerable really needs a high level of support
and care and the best were able to tell a child is we don't know where you're going there for
tonight you're going to this hotel with props another child you don't know and a couple social
workers who see you may not know either and so it is very disruptive than traumatic for
children to these kids tell you how that affects them or show you how it's affecting what they
show less frequently by their behavior and frequently they will run from hotels they will
become assault moved towards either the social workers or other you her hotel staff they will
can destroy property so there are situations where law enforcement is called war where there
are no longer able to stay in the hotel so to do they demonstrate by their actions that this is
traumatic.
KFXO (FOX)
Jan 6 • 4:00 PM

B_JAN_OREG_43

… involved in a three vehicle crash last night, while responding to a ca in the terrebonne area
arielle brumfield has detail arielle lee, the crash happened just after 8 pm at the intersection of
highway 97 an clausen drive on the north side of bend. deputy clint baltzor was heading nort
with his lights and siren on. he was headed to a call out for the sw team in terrebonne involving
a suicidal person, when he hit a car in front of hi the bend police department is investigating
the collision and says the driver of a nissan rogue in front of deputy baltzor swerved right, the
left in an effort to get out of his way. police say baltzor hit the nissan, whic then ran into a
honda odyssey. all three drivers were taken to sai charles bend for non lif threatening injuries
deputies say baltzor was able to assist the other people involved in the crash until help arrived.
the investigation is ongoing but lieutenant jul mcconkey shares more details about the nature
of the crash.
News Radio KEX
Jan 6 • 7:26 PM

B_JAN_OREG_44

before you commit an actual suicide which is no fun explanation point exclamation point who
exclamation points no fly no all fine now of course you go to prison for molesting children us so
much fun but not here No. 5 0 but not even a little fun he says you know for that's the most
42

ridiculous suicide note I've ever heard he doesn't see I mean it looks like a couple things I want
to bring up to his lawyer as if it doesn't look like it was a noted all but maybe he's whining to his
lawyer for better treatment or whatever but that's not a suicide note unbelievable I know I
know I've lied at the end they don't also points to the fact it wasn't a suicide why are you
complaining we've got about your conditions if you're about to hang yourself.
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 6 • 5:05 PM

B_JAN_OREG_45

lane county public health is working to prepare the community to help people who are suicidal.
the company is turning 18 instructors who will provide regular suicide response training in cities
all across lane county. the instructors will be trained to teach question persuade and river. the
training helps identify suicidal thoughts in people, persuade them to get help, and refer them to
agencies that can provide that help. the suicide prevention coordinator says the trainings are
free. >> anybody in the community in any occupation, and any kind of role. that's where were
going to get the most covered. and create that sense of community. in which people see
themselves as actually responsible for suicide prevention, rather than simply all the
professionals. >> the trainings start on january 14. he says sometime around march the
trainings will start, and beheld about every other week in lane county.
KHQ (NBC)
Jan 6 • 11:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_25

we have new information tonight about the death of convicted sex offender jeffrey epstein. we
have new photos tonight... showing the jail cell where the wealthy political donor died... and
the note he left behind. epstein was accused of running a sex trafficking ring with dozens of
underage girls... but died before his trial. tonight the forensic pathologist who epstein's brother
hired... doctor michael baden says he believes the evidence show's epstein's death may have
been a homicide... instead of a suicide. baden says: "the particular hemorrhages in the eyes, the
crush injuries in the neck, the three fractures in the neck. ah, not seen in hanging suicides that
at most 10 percent time you might get one fracture. but this was a very hard compression of
the neck." the two guards who were on duty at the time of epstein's death... are facing criminal
charges for not keeping an eye on him... and then lying about what they were doing in the jail
records.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 6 • 11:00 PM

B_JAN_OREG_46

lane county public health is working to prepare the community to help suicidal persons. your
training eight teen instructors who will be able to provide service all over lane county. they will
be taught to use qpr. this helps to question, persuade them to get help and refer them to
agencies. roger baker says the trainings are free and open to those of all backgrounds and
professions. >> anybody in the community, any occupation because that is where we are going
43

to get the most coverage and create that sense of community in which people see themselves
as actual responsible for suicide prevention, rather than simply professionals. >> the training
starts january 14. around march the community can expect the trainings happening every other
week in lane county.
KMVU (FOX)
Jan 6 • 11:06 PM

B_JAN_OREG_47

jesse: i'm jesse palmer. here are "dailymailtv"'s top trending stories happening right now. inside
the cell where millionaires where millionaire pedophile jeffrey epstein killed himself. do these
newly released photos so just fall play? >> they appoint much more to murder than suicide. >>
jesse: then, helical leader and his wife are on the run, leaving behind a trail of death while her
two children are missing. then, what led to this emotional backstage moment that brought
oprah and lady gaga to tears? plus, "the bachelor" is back. will pilot pete sort for the season 24
kick off? plus, everyone loves a comeback. see which stars returned to bask in the glow of the
"golden globes." >> i'm surviving. still here. >> jesse: will come to that. let's get right to our top
story. we are getting our first - -dash autopsy photos show his bloodied neck, nooses made
from bedsheets, and electrical cords. some suspect that he was murdered. a warning, though,
the images that you are about to see may be disturbing for some people. >> this was a
monumental failure on all levels. >> jesse: jeffrey epstein was discovered at 6:30 a.m. on
saturday, august 10th. guards tried to revive him. they shouted "breathe, breathe." the
financier was taken to an emergency room, violating prison protocol. his body should have
been left in his self until officers could evaluate the scene. what was left in his scene was piles
of orange bedsheets, nooses made from bed linens, a piece of material was tied to a window
great. another portion of his she was tied to a hole on the bunk bed. there was also a sleep
apnea machine with electrical cords, images taken by the new york city medical examiner's
officers in. >> there are no photos of his dead body in the cell, which could either corroborate
or completely destroyed claims that he committed suicide. the crime scene was not secured.
the body was moved. that's wrong. >> jesse: his death was ruled a suicide by hanging, but
questions are being raised about the news that he used. >> this looks like a clean news that was
never used to compress anybody's next. >> jesse: it was straight across the neck. michael baden
says it looks like he could have been strangled by a cord. this handwritten note was also found
inside his cell. the 66-year-old complained about the conditions writing "giant bugs crawling
over my hands." >> you look at the word "giant." you notice that it looks like a male genitalia
appeared when you see that in handwriting, you are almost always dealing with somebody who
is into sex. >> jesse: he allegedly tried to kill himself, was moved to the psych ward, but
eventually taken off of suicide watch. now whereas women demand answers answers, it
continues to remain a mystery. meanwhile, glenn maxwell fears for her life. she is being
guarded around the clock by u.s. navy seals pugh the 58-year-old is being shuttled between safe
houses in the midwest after receiving credible death threats.

44

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 7 • 12:39 AM

B_JAN_WASH_26

Saturday hundreds gathered in Winnipeg not torture perform but remember kelly Frazer and
pray for her at a candlelight vigil the you know nominated singer grew up none of it but she was
living in Winnipeg when she died by suicide last month at age 26 in addition to music in his
freezer was a passionate advocate for in culture and language which she promoted by
translating pop songs like Rihanna diamonds into enough to his praises sister Maxine named
you spoke to the cbc of the legacy kelly Frazer leaves behind my sister was living with me here
when he came my previous list there was a very fierce stubbornly same time I don't know all I
can't believe it's say there is a lot of things to start going places a lot of teams real trend hoping
her credit she struggled violently because that's just what she loves dance so I just want to she
just wanted people to see me I can hear everything good she just wanted to be happy during
this difficult time what's the biggest learning opportunity here you need to go back to your
roots and traditions their culture and language wasn't news because that was what she thought
she key fobs floor revitalizing early English and case she just wanted everybody to never forget
that and my kids to see only spoken to my baby and that's what we have to keep playing and
spread love people love it so much easier to live when you spread love was maxine and
speaking to the CBC's dana how early on Saturday during a candlelight vigil from zingers sister
kelly Frazer the juneau nominated singer took her own life on Christmas Eve she was 26 if you
believe you or someone you know maybe at risk of suicide or you can call the Canada suicide
Prevention service.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 7 • 4:25 PM

B_JAN_WASH_27

article in the new York times today if this is so it's just depressing about ZTE amount of suicide
among young people then of course there was no evil there's no hint as to who about why that
there's no hint that there might be a religious factor that his kids become more and more and
when me right now runs the having no religion they are that they might be infected less happy
we should player so many young people are killing themselves wire young Americans killing
themselves suicide is now the second leading cause of death plans to cut interest maybe
surprise interest doesn't have an answer to the question maybe more likely a priest Minister
rabbi would have would have an answer to this question teenagers and young adults in the
United States being ravaged by a mental health crisis and we are doing nothing about it why are
they being ravaged by mental health crisis Dr. Friedman a New York times one what happened
what what has induced this as of 2017 statistics showed that an alarming number of them were
suffering from depression and dying by suicide after declining for nearly two decades the
suicide rate among Americans ages 10 to 24 jumped 56% between 2007 and 27 team and for
the first time the gender gap and suicide has narrowed at the same time the rate of teen
depression.

45

AM 860
Jan 7 • 6:40 AM

B_JAN_OREG_48

big story on jeffrey epstein on 60 minutes Sunday night that they are prominently featured die
Dr. Michael bod these forensic pathologist the bottom is pointing out this somewhat like a
suicide me hang yourself and they had gruesome and graphic pictures of that steams body we
could see the groom them is that it was all bloody it was really gross but it was down like way
below the Saddam's that when you hang yourself body said that would be closer to your jaw
that ligature it looks more like somebody who's strangling somebody from behind now how
about best he's named maximum Fed role prison riot in lower Manhattan not a few blocks from
where I'm sitting right now won the most high-profile prisoners in America he had a cpap
machine with like sex and sex foot core an electrical cord Nay yet arty apparently tried to
commit suicide how do you give the guy a cpap machine with a 6 foot-long electrical cord and
this and medicine everywhere Yeah I mean the pictures of the jail cell and I'm telling you the 60
minutes correspondent Sharon Alpha magazine whoever she is he was skeptical she was
skeptical you could tell all the guards just happened to be sleeping that night they were
browsing the Internet they were supposed to check out of steam every 30 minutes it went like
they were like 8 9 10 hours he was supposed to have a cellmate there was supposed to be
working the video surveillance cameras all that broke down all all the second camera wasn't
working wink-wink old guards guards found his body easy interview no not yet they've yet to
interview the person who discovered and stings body that doesn't seem suspicious at all does it
not at all vein news that he's fashion was supposedly out of this or not these Orange bedsheets
they showed the news again not one speck blood on the pictures of a noose the sheets have
you believe you'll see the blood on the shades his neck where they had what they call the big
the dock the division but they the indentation close could mean ligature Mark it was like a
bloody it was so bad his bone in his neck bones were broken in 3 places in all the years the
bottom has practiced forensic pathology he has never seen a suicide that resulted in 3 broken
bones in the net like that esteemed didn't kill himself I'm telling you abstinent didn't kill himself
kind of got turned into a punch line over the last year but the room look at look up as 60
minutes report if you haven't seen yet it's fascinating I don't know how anybody can conclude
that there wasn't any shenanigans Associated with the death of Jeffrey Epstein.
AM 860
Jan 7 • 6:50 AM

B_JAN_OREG_49

60 minutes report Tom know I did my but you know I already been following it and I thank you
very much for bringing up all those details today are much appreciated I'm very disappointed
with what william barr said is a number of weeks back when he's he pronounced it is suicide
and get out because who knows who knows who's had more flights anybody else more flights
on those planes and then those polls and who does that and Kyle hamptons certain number of I
don't want to say a word on it but frequent sex act points how many didn't have to fly I'm
confused by bill bars role in this you're right I think that's a terrific point that that seems that's
very perplexing to me he came out he said when he reviewed the video and perhaps the video
evidence the suggestion was it was it was a suicide but it just seemed kind of awkward and and
46

stilted and almost like for state we didn't get that sense Yeah and what and what what we have
now on the climb body count yet throwing but you look at that well as a lot of people say there
are so many dismissed that as say wild wild conspiracy theory but that a lot of people who were
in the clinton orbit wind-up you know with was often mysterious and beans to their life I just
don't buy it just changed you have to think about all the things that had to do short of this the
gathering storm the perfect storm all the camera was out O the guards didn't check he had I
can't get over having electrical cord in a in a suicidal high-profile prisoners shall…
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 7 • 9:00 AM

B_JAN_OREG_50

Lane county public health is working to help people who are suicidal. the county is training 18
instructors to provide regular suicide response training to citizens across the country. the
training helps to identify suicidal thoughts in people and persuading them to get help and
referring them to agencies to do that. the training is for free. >> anybody in the community
with any occupation because that's where we will get the most coverage and create that sense
of community in which people see themselves as actually responsible for suicide prevention
rather than simply all the professionals. >> these classes will begin on january 14th. brubaker
said around march, the trainings will be held every other week in lane county.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 7 • 6:31 AM

B_JAN_OREG_51

mac lane county public health is looking to help suicidal people. their training 18 new
instructors that can provide regular suicide response training in cities all over lane county. the
instructors will teach qpr which is question, persuade and refer. this helps people to identify
suicidal thoughts and persuade them to get help and then refer them to agencies that can help
them. suicide prevention coordinator roger brubaker says the trainings are free and open to
people of all backgrounds and professions. >> anybody in the community in any occupation in
any kind of rope because that is where we will get the most coverage and create that sense of
community. in which people see themselves as actually responsible for suicide prevention
rather than simply all the professionals. >>> the instructor training starts january 14. brubaker
says that in March the community can expect to see these trainings happening every other
week in lane county.
KBNZ
Jan 7 • 8:48 AM

B_JAN_OREG_52

every year, millions of americans are exposed to a contagious virus. what is this virus? it's
stigma. stigma promotes an environment of shame, fear and silence, which prevents millions of
people from seeking help. but, there's good news. the national alliance on mental illness
believes stigma towards mental illness is a hundred percent curable. so do yourself and
everyone a favor. [narrator] go to curestigma.org and get tested for stigma. for generations,
heart disease has been our number one killer. striking women of every age, color and culture.
47

heart disease claims one woman every minute. killing more women than men, and more
women than all cancer's combined. i don't know about you, but i intend to stay alive. fight the
ladykiller. get heart checked. when the engines failed on the plane i was flying, i knew what to
do to save my passengers. but when my father sank into depression, i didn't know how to help
him. when he ultimately shot himself, he left our family devastated. don't let this happen to
you. if you or a loved one is suicidal, call the national suicide prevention lifeline. no matter how
hopeless or helpless you feel, with the right help, you can get well. cbs cares.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 7 • 4:40 PM

B_JAN_WASH_28

… ultimately the messages that are given to young people today and energy why would they be
depressed because everything about their life he told them is awful including their future you
more on this jane fonda is a bona fide more on she is a stupid human being I'm sorry to say this
it is not my style she's stupid talking to one another full cold air about extinction elusive young
people for Jaime wai evade depressed all because they of extinction know much why did they
have extinction was because the left is told them don't die in 10 years you are seeing me I'm
sorry should never alienate listeners you were full of you don't understand the damage the left
does you don't want to because you believe in it because you've been so Dr David that's right it
is bad you can't confront how despicable the left is how destructive take kids committed was
shot more than ever but why why why did they not because we're giving them these messages
about how disgusting you're societies help all 4 of their past is and how bleak their futurist
know that I did bait it's because we don't recognize the he symptoms all of psychiatric illness
early enough got folks and that's what's considered smart in the new York times okay my
friends will take some of your calls when we return 63% garage in oklahoma but might it be or
religion doesn't even across their lips autumn still looks where analysis to church and and
should beco going kids commit suicide with the same rate to conservative kids commit suicide
at the same rate.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 7 • 3:15 PM

B_JAN_WASH_29

I have no recollection of the formation was laid and Mary said that the agency had no
recollection of what he said I let the side down even when presented with the evidence the TV
networks and newspapers magazines they shied away from the story of the pimped the stars
which brings us to the conspiracy theories and we're back he died by suicide or was he a suicide
Ed 60 minutes released new autopsy photos and videos alleged suicide note which got a lot of
people talking Dr Michael bond and is friends with apologies to was hired by Mark asking jeffrey
it sees brother to look into the death the autopsy reveals that jeffrey epstein had been tki
which is burst vessel Dr. bonds says that's a key indicator that somebody's neck was
compressed and you see it more in compression the you do see it in hanging and after looking
at everything what ever seen head other injuries to Mark the back of his neck Mike Louis any
injection Mark my list I didn't either arm he hit he hit this this is interesting to me that this this
Michael all bought and he's a doctor he's forensic expert he says that he has never seen and he
48

feels it's unheard of in his recollection to see not one broke a bone broken all these cases true
almost never happens but there are 3 bones broken in esteem snack Yes we do Y know that's
why he is saying Daddy likely somebody murdered show him another chance to take down
Trump clinton are other people that he supplied young women to or 3 fractures V neck bones
Dr. key reasons for being suspicious about the death of Jeffrey have seen is that broken hiring
and firing cartilage all are quite different kinds of pressure and positioning of he knows so 3
broken bones Michael us with 3 different angle of the news a future one of the apologies we
spell Jalen absolutely agree with Dr biden says Yes that's very suspicious to have all 3 of those
bones broken heart was broken another the aws we spoke to was an ask convinced incident
doesn't necessarily indicate homicide so what would it take Mike for round 3 huge to say what
what would it take for you to be suspicious because we've got so much but honestly I know this
I not try to trap you I'm genuinely curious and try to trap him trapping you do the trapping
allergy the uncovering of radio partner I won I won I understand what would it take for you to
become suspicious Mike loose about upstate one not suspicious about Epstein and related you
about that Yeah I am glad I know anyway I don't understand why the existing conclusion isn't
completely reasonable it just doesn't make any sense to me I mean everyone is looking for a
tiny tiny things that indicate what look Let's back up how many people need to be involved in
this conspiracy said 1000 people need to be paid off in a variety of where the suicide car for the
camera to be disabled for those guards to be removed for a variety of things to happen and all
these people want something in return know your thoughts Yeah mean you catch send guard
away for nothing for no reason at all so we've now got we got about 12 maybe all of them
maybe sometimes tell somebody maybe they don't we've already got enough people now that
if they had an opportunity took I don't know solve this story black they'll do Ever they want to
do wallet we're talking about guards in one of the worst federal facilities in America that has
had problems for years of exactly this sort and now because of a chef we have seen no one
believed so what would it take to make you suspicious of the circumstance it would be like if
someone came out if a guard came out suddenly had a bunch of money I'm seeking thought
ahead if if what the prison guards I think 3 been fired moved around cetera if one of them came
out and said they had a bunch of money with that drier suspicion what would it take to make
you the skeptical factual only you know trade we're saying is that would make the fbi suspicious
and who is not who is the what's little noisy echo we hear about the fbi investigation into this
the deal jays' the attorney general said it was outrageous circumstances he said it was an
unbelievable he said was furious about its I said I said I said investigation Yeah I thought about
the D.O.J. in the fbi investigation is currently going on about this guys are responding to the
echo what do you know about that they're dead I don't think about they're really trying to find
his lane Maxwell to look for his money no no I mean about the suicide the bus was on its side
like a dozen GOP the day of what what what is the status of those investigations I think there
are currently investigating the facility nonexistent that's the status there is no investigation no
one in so all right this it's that I'm sorry I was 12 it's Let's and Let's do the ticker on how many
more people now we got the fbi involved in this conspiracy to not investigate this and the D.O.J.
is also involves Let's just crisis it's a small group of was paid 25000 people now that are involved
in this conspiracy all who know people that they might have talked about it okay so what it will
take maybe a legitimate news or not a news organization fighting something worthwhile as a
criminal investigation that actually shows something that's more convincing than a guy who is
49

facing life in prison as a pedophile when Hey himself why is this I have 1000 people last year in
jail kill themselves so graphic situation killed themselves many have brought suicide modulation
out of our guy our history our country's history terrible circumstances there was a conspiracy
and was successfully found out about a conspiracy 9 11 dusky things I think I a tuskegee
experiment that was hidden it was a conspiracy it was found out and talk about them.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 7 • 9:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_30

a new study shows a link between raising minimum wages and a reduction in suicide rates as
NPR's reach Chatterjee reporters the effect is apparently stronger when unemployment rates
are high suicide rates would be rising across the United States and financial stress the stock to
be a contributing factor in the new study which tipped minimum wages unemployment
and suicide draped in States between 1919 2015 found that as unemployment levels went
up soda suicide but States the true raised their minimum wage saw fall and so I cite steps the
study estimates that one $ increase in minimum wage during the 2009 recession and
unemployment was high could have prevented up to 14000 suicide deaths among working age
adults with a high school degree or less.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jan 8 • 9:20 AM

B_JAN_WASH_31

a man accused of pretending to be a missing child from Illinois said now plead guilty today part
of a plea deal with federal prosecute in exchange for pleading guilty to aggravated identity theft
24 year-old Brian Michael brady will accept a two-year prison sentence years' supervised
release and up to a quarter million dollar fine where he was arrested last year after telling
authorities along the ohio kentucky border he was to the pits than a six-year-old war illinois boy
who went missing in 2011 after his mother was found dead of an apparent suicide Reedie said
mitted to authorities he lied about who was after seeing this story about pits and Brady set to
appear in court Wednesday the board remains missing he would be 15 years old.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 8 • 7:26 PM

B_JAN_OREG_53

we remember the children are killing themselves because of the ghoulish character named
Momo seeking Internet meme of esteemed didn't kill himself that made the Golden globe
awards and he's deis roasted the hollywood elite the fires of hypocrisy he brought up as he
didn't kill himself there's some groans the audience but course win mean was rolling have seen
him kill himself Prince Sanders came forward to talk about his experience with up steam we had
a new investigation we have steen case 60 and assisted in exposing the have seen case say he
didn't kill himself so means our powerful if you believe in me magic or the power of the Twitter
in but you know you look at Twitter tweets in wartime you want to pay attention how crazy it's
getting and how social media has more control over the outcomes of these things we realize isis

50

there's something about mean the magic in war time it's very fascinating tonight you're gonna
have your mind blown as to how it all worked.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 8 • 11:10 AM

B_JAN_OREG_54

so all the secrets about what actually happened with jeffrey epstein they want out I wonder if
that has any part of it because the whole andrew thank you brit Sanders thank I doubted the
Royal family had seen killed I don't want to say that there's so many possibilities of who might
have had a steam killed a second wait a minute wait a minute way window when Jeffrey
Epstein The when all that stuff that he didn't kill himself we're like openly joking about hillary
clinton like sneaking into his jail cell and killing him Yes and joked about the Royal family killing
Jeffrey Epstein Yes don't go that far what they I'm just saying you said you didn't want to go
that far to joke about said the royal family watching him killing off jeffrey epstein I also want to
pair I'm just reacting in real time you want me to keep track of everything said on clinton has
finally have the mental capacity for that find a dog pile of the Royal family I'm just so dry
Michael you serious matter I think syria is why they it's more likely that the Royal family had
something to do with that Steve's death than hillary clinton all I totally disagree I disagree I
think I'd bet on one another for having the influence their wallets the Royal family where you
put your money on now scott I'm sorry but I got to go David on this one and why is that
because there's some sneak attack stuff going on there all the time what about they do still the
influence they have with different people all around the world they have a lot more to lose
right now hillary clinton I suppose that's true and they have more influence than hillary clinton
in this country to get to the have to River the Jeffrey Epstein didn't just deal with people in the
United States Senate you're talking about a global conspiracy that Epstein was part of I
understand but it happened in the United States you know this whole conversation get a little
crazy.
AM 860
Jan 8 • 10:22 PM

B_JAN_OREG_55

he is a professor of psychiatry Colonel wire young Americans killing themselves teenagers and
young Sea mazes being ravaged by mental health crisis and we're not doing anything about it as
a 2017 stab show that an alarming number of them suffering from depression and dying by
suicide in fact suicide is now the second leading cause of death among young people surpassed
only by accidents after declining for nearly two decades the suicide rate among Americans aged
10 to 24 hour jump by more than 50% in the last decade for the first time the gender gap and
suicide is narrowed still greater males the rates of suicide for female youths increased by 13%
each year between that over that decade compared with 7% for men male youths rate of teen
depression is up 63% in 2017 nearly one in 16 report at least one episode of depression the
past year that's doubling from a decade earlier so how was it possible that some many of our
young people are suffering from depression and killing themselves what we know perfectly well
how to treat this illness asks Dr. Friedman Dr. Friedman dresses that he says he says there's
some evidence that girls who shown greater rate of increase in depression boys experience
51

more cyber bully because of their greater use of mobile phones and texting however most
studies digital technology mental health are Corlette to live they cannot prove causation at this
point based on the research but about Mina a relative connection is not something to be
dismissed it is perhaps not the driving force behind the spike he goes on to some of the other
answers you might immediately think drugs alcohol nobody goes in this case they're on an
unlikely explanation as the study cited above control for drug use in addition there's no
evidence A significant increase in drug or alcohol use in young people during the study period
controlling for that not seeing a spike in we within that age demographic drugs and alcohol
seems like it's got to be something else I think were sort of on the other side a Bell curve on
that though and Freeman addresses that as well you know he he goes back to the black box
warning for antidepressants back in 2004 so this is this is sometimes since this really started to
get some public attention and documentaries made and so forth it's a legitimate area of
concern make a mistake but he goes on to write within two years the FDA advisory and
depressing you drop by 31% of teens and 24% of young adults sell low it uses recovered
somewhat after away it's remain below levels that would have been expected based on
prescribing patterns before the warnings appeared you know these are all bits and pieces we
were talking about trying to address this at the Micro individual cases there will be some
variance of course he goes on to say the good news is we don't have to wait for all the answers
know what to do we know that very psychotherapy medication are effective in treating
depression we just need to do a better job of identifying reaching out to providing resources for
at risk youth concluding every day's 16 people died from suicide what are we waiting for
perhaps is something else going on he didn't cover though no one expected to cover because
coming from a strictly scientific perspective this piece that my friend our friend friend of the
show Bob Woodson road the Hill for the Christmas holiday I mentioned this issue and then he
pointed out that in Palo Alto distraught parents have taken part in a quote unquote bridge walk
in response to rashard teen suicides Silicon Valley the suicide rate for you since Silicon Valley is
6 times the national average what's happening here these Earth largely kids from well-to-do to
them you know Uber wealthy families going good schools in nice environment around smart
successful other people write in the absence of hope Invision for their lives right Woodson the
sons and daughters of the wealthy have hurled themselves to their deaths the poverty is not
material is it possible that there is aid spiritual component to this they're not seeing him
purpose and meaning in their lives but they're surrounded by what we tell people young people
to will give you a purpose and meaning which is such a make money and acquire things got that
so now what I would say his piece he talked to a friend of his name though sean brock who's a
policy wonk for the Hudson Institute and said day I took away from gatherings where you go to
porn neighborhoods neighborhoods struggling with addiction visible addiction drug addiction
struggling with high level of crime and you talk to the people that are trying to make their way
or recover from gain an ax something he said Shammo said I took away from these gatherings
the feeling some related to the struggle that I face my own life struggle different from that of
bears only because they occurred on streets of more fashionable neighborhoods I may never
have been addicted to heroin crack but had not in fact in his slave to the other legal so-called
acceptable chemical addictions and happen hopelessly addicted very point in my life to work to
scholarly credentials to physical appearances professional success political power social status I
may never have been a prisoner behind physical bars but had not been imprisoned by own
52

inflated ego might exaggerate notions of who I am what I can do for my false precept positions
and prejudices about others

KATU-POR (ABC)
Jan 9 • 9:37 PM

B_JAN_OREG_56

one in five adults lives with her mental illness and a staggering percentage are not receiving
treatment. our next guest knows firsthand the impact this has on a family. we welcome the
mother-daughter co-authors of, and impossible life. your support dog is with you so i love that.
theirs is a really powerful book. let's just get right into it. you talk about being forced into a
mental institution. and the havoc it wreaked on your family. what happened? >> because of the
stigma of mental illness. i hit my mental illness for over 20 years. >> you hit it from your
husband and kids . >> no. >> your husband saw it. >> of course. when you're living behind
closed doors. married to the ceo. beautiful home. behind closed doors, my life was falling apart
and my marriage hanging on by a thread. but in that book, i shatter that ideal appearance and
everything. >> what was it like? your mom asked you to write the book. what was it like talking
to your mom about these intimate details that maybe you didn't know about. >> it was inspiring
to me and cathartic. at 16, i found my mom's suicide note and i was so upset at her. i thought it
was selfish. after getting time to hear her thoughts behind these moments in her life, i realized
she didn't want to leave me and my family, she wanted to leave the pain she was in. >> why
were you feeling the need to kill yourself? >> i think a lot of people who struggle with suicidal
thoughts is because you're in so much pain and suffering. you can't take another moment. it's a
conversation a lot of people have difficulty having and we need to talk about it more. just like
someone was cancer and they're fighting for their life. thoughts and bit's an illness. >> you were
raised by a big personality father. kind of a strict mom too. >> yes. well, mental illness runs in
my family. my father died from suicide. my nieces, i have nephews, cousins. my grandfather. of
mental illness runs through our family. so when i was young and i saw my father distributing
attributes of illness. i thought this is just my dad. it was my normal. there was a lot being talked
about or being done about mental illness back then as much as it is today. >> you started with
the idea that - - you were taken to a hospital. and your husband is there. the nurse asks if
you're thinking of killing yourself. and you say, yes. because you've been stressed out. there's
all that. the next thing you know, they're taking you away. felt completely betrayed. your
husband wasn't helping you. >> i think the stigma around mental health, i didn't want to accept
i had a mental illness. at that time, i thought oh my gosh, i don't want to be crazy. i didn't want
to be associated with that. i didn't want to accept it. but it was after my attempted suicide and i
was taken to the hospital where my husband was the ceo. elite psychiatrist said never take her
here again. take her somewhere where people don't know you. i said wait a minute, if i had
suffered a heart attack, with the doctor tell my husband never to bring be there again? that was
the turning point where it was like, i'm coming out of hiding. i'm going to accept this and get
help i desperately need and i share my story. >> whatwere the signs of mental illness? what
was happening? >> a lot of my behavio was extreme. also relatable. like, over eating.
overspending. i weighed almost 300 pounds. i spent $150,000 in credit cards in three months. i
53

feel like, because my daughter wrote the book like a movie that people will read it in 24 hours
and want to see how it ends. after they see all i have gone through and overcome, they can see,
i see her logic behind her thoughts and feelings and they understand mental illness better. and
they feel like they can handle their life. >> when did you first see the signs of mental illness?
were you overly emotional? you talk about going to see a movie and it was too much for you.
>> i would say probably if i trace back, probably in college. some of the emotions were so
strong and just crying and having meltdowns and not being able to get out of bed. not being
able to do life. unity function, shower, go to your classes. in college, i would go weeks where i
couldn't get out of bed. i wasn't showering or going to class. i didn't know what was happening
to me. it wasn't something that was talked about. that's why i'm talking about it now . >>
rachel, i feel for you having being raised by a mom who was in institutional, tried to try to kill
herself a couple times. what was it you experience with your mom and her mental illness? >>
when you're a kid, all you know is you are home. to me, it was my normal. when i look back,
there were things that are unusual but now i'm married, and my husband tells me your
childhood is very different than mine. my mom would frequently get banned from places. like
the michael's craft store . >> not michael's! >> were my brothers high school. the principal or
teachers would say you're not allowed on school property. i just thought, my mom is kind of
intense. >> was it because you're angry? what happened at each of these places? >> like i said,
extreme behavior. i became excesses about getting pictures framed. as silly as it sounds, i had
these pictures that i needed framed and i would be there all day. asking customers , is this
pretty. >> i would be so embarrassed point she would take all the employees times and there
would be people waiting. but in her mind, she was the most important person. she'd be yelling ,
rachel, come back. we need to figure this out! they said you're never allowed to come back. >>
we have a happy marriage. my kids are graduated from college. we are best friends. i have a
beautiful life now through medicine and therapy, you can carve out a life for yourself. things i
need to deal with. i would say, men who suffer from mental illness are those who feel helpless
and hopeless. and there is hope. >> and impossible life. thank you so much.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 9 • 9:47 AM

B_JAN_OREG_57

video taken outside Jeffrey Epstein sell on the night of his first suicide attempt was deleted by
mistake prosecute that I made and this is not possible Wow so video of both night something
happened the this wasn't working and malfunction it's gone missing that's not possible here
this is the video camera this time it was and 8 Yeah it's it's it wasn't a hike camera
malfunctioned because that's what happened on the night he quote unquote killed himself was
there was a malfunction right this as someone just deleted it by mistake Louis Wow I just love
solving problems AP It's like Joe biden Yes kind of program the VCR something deletes it that's
not possible with a mustache fake nose I don't have my handy list in front of me of everything
that happened or went missing or went wrong I know there was napping going on from the
security Yara's there were people just you know going online they forgot their check-ins me all
these things it's the perfect start well they'll be yet they forged documents about what that is
doing cameras failed would have had a decent enough view of his cell diagnosis and all they
bait that the guy's been dead for two hours in his cell mate taken to the emergency room all
54

good no pictures of the dead body in the cells Yeah no no no forensic evidence like that that
would allow Hamm's and okay now we know why Prince Harry M Meghan Markle are leaving
the Royal family because they had something not not those two but of the Royal family had
something to do with this I'm convinced now more than ever you're joking I'm not joking and
from you think they have I did I absolutely think they had a hand in you don't just last segment
we were talking about just the smallest and what's going on there and the prosecutor getting
all the Google documents from just over the last year Yeah I wonder if there is a similar effort
going on right now to figure out what the heck happened with jeffrey epstein so someone sees
the Where's all the desks you can't you can't find the deleted footage did someone clear out
the recycling bin or something what's going on here and chuck's janitorial service command the
garbage can mentioned this a little bit earlier.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 9 • 10:35 AM

B_JAN_OREG_58

update we got today is not possible price before we get into song money all you want to talk
about ad steamed not killing himself Eckstine did not kill himself Soleimani was murdered in
Seoul was number used taken out of his visit terrorist we can say both were taken out Yes so
the nose today are mind seeing ABC news is reporting now others are reporting to you that
apparently the video the surveillance video from inside the jail word jeffrey epstein billionaire
pedophile sex trafficker was being held the video surveillance moves his first suicide attempt
led videos been deleted by mistake boy that's a whole lot of problem was just happened to
happen all at the same time not possible he had the is this stack of of of mistakes is now higher
than the clinton body count are right it's just it's not possible not prove this is a live the D.C.
with that story and that's before this week before the 60 minutes piece aired on Sunday are
plenty of people in the country pretty much convinced the jeffrey abstained didn't kill himself
but after the 60 minutes report there are more people in that camp and after this comes out if
you got I guess there's even more that saying how many circumstantial things can happen in
one case it's crazy I saw the Soleimani mean today the picture of Soleimani Yeah as says
underneath it's just talked to jeffrey he didn't kill himself know listen okay so just just talking
about this surveillance video of the outside it is from outside his cell the first suicide attempt
I'm going to read you headlines okay dealing with this video from new York magazine video
from Esteves failed suicide attempt can't be found then the next day so that that headline was
December 19th 2019 December 20th 2019 Fox business lost jeffrey epstein suicide attempt
video was found today video was deleted on accident okay that's not be what it limits their jobs
what happened to it I thought I hit the play button hit delete you can get it back take NCIS over
it could be modified to lead a video on my phone I got 30 days to retrieve it right what is going
on and it doesn't make sense I'm not buying it its are you over and of course not know why you
look at it like Wow I mean these come on man there's just too much stuff okay of thank you for
the update any time you want to go over again we can I I makes no sense you're like okay
what's next it's and again do I'm not an expert we all know this it but when you see his back
those autopsy photos shouldn't gross does that look like a new style like wired went around his
neck you get Um Yeah it's very thin And I think once this season plan my head that malfeasance
took place I mean if if I were not to know that we see the autopsy photos and I just think down
55

okay down himself no because that's the seed had been planted we're all suffering from
confirmation bias well little bit maybe saying I said and I don't know if that's true or not I mean
golly okay those sure does seem fishy to make money just again I want to admit as Stephen
Brown rights wrote a sentence that I think encapsulates perfectly Foca new development in the
missing then found video from MCC during jeffrey epstein suicide town government now says
video wasn't preserved after all Trish okay and nights of the suicide that same camera
malfunctions the feds accidentally preserved footage of the wrong sell it during his first suicide
attempt a backup system for video footage also wasn't working meaning that surveillance video
has gone the mind but we have video steve slacker going to sleep is so Yeah and the two guards
they just happen to take a nap they're tired overworked that Yes he knocked possible for now
the most famous person on pawn in the cellblock that he's gone too by the way old course Yes
on suicide watch list taken off early.
KOHD (ABC)
Jan 9 • 5:10 PM

B_JAN_OREG_59

the central oregon veterans ranch has been working since 2015 to help heal veterans suffering
from combat trauma. >> today, the ranch received some very special editions to enhance the
therapeutic environment. anyssa bohanan has more. >> when you think of therapy animals,
you might think of dogs, maybe even cats, birds, horses, but staff hopes the ranch's newest
members will offer just as much comfort as any dogs. >> the central oregon veterans ranch
offers veterans like johnathan courtney a place to connect with others and heal in a
comfortable and therapeutic environment. >> i served for nine years in the u.s. army and then
got out and struggled. i had a tour in iraq and struggled with ptsd. we struggle with ups and
downs or maybe life challenges that happen. that's why this ranch is important. >> courtney
has been volunteering at the ranch for nearly a year, facilitating suicide training. thursday four
more members were added to the ranch family to help help provide veterans with another
form of therapy. the sheep will now serve as therapy animals to veterans. staff says the animals
are generally known to be calm and promote a peaceful atmosphere. >> personally, i don't
know how to work with sheep or even know the first thing about sheep, but it gives me an
opportunity to come out and learn. it's not necessarily about the sheep. it's about helping and
building those relationships with veterans. >> in addition to the sheep, the ranch is also
expanding its greenhouse program, giving veterans a space to grow and harvest produce that is
then sold to local businesses and donated to local food banks. >> right now and what we've
been doing for the last year is growing mostly lettuce and tomatoes. we'll be expanding that
this year 2020. also, we'll be starting a community garden for veterans. it gives a healthy
environment for guys and gals to come out with or without their families and connect and get
into the land. >> the programs are all designed to ensure veterans heal together. >> if you need
a place to come, if you need a place to connect with other veterans, the ranch is that place. >>
the ranch is open to all veterans monday through saturday and all the programs offered at the
ranch are free. for more information, visit the ranch's website at covranch.org.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 9 • 11:38 AM

B_JAN_OREG_60

56

jeffrey abstain another another piece of evidence is gone missing right so there was these
surveillance video of the first arrived from outside Jeffrey Epstein's sell all of these first two
perhaps only suicide attempt on the part of jeffrey epstein right and at first they said that
footage was missing then they found it and now we have reports today that the video was not
preserved afterall see what White guys G they've preserved the wrong floor video surveillance
from me raw and the floor I so they have deleted the evidence okay and they can't get back
because also the backup system for video footage also was working come on man come law
and see no way this guy stay absolutely not me if you don't believe everything happened the
way they said it did it is a circus there when it comes to that man in jail that's crazy dozen cases
Andy Griffith show for crying out loud or miami C'mon what are we doing here Yes somebody's
got to spare bullets and then they get in the car wreck A stressful situation to boy for it there's
just too much stuff so the ability of this right so the video Mark Epstein suicide was in the
drawer.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 9 • 11:38 AM

B_JAN_OREG_61

jeffrey Epstein another piece of evidence is gone missing right so there was these surveillance
video of the first arrived from outside Jeffrey Epstein's sell all of these first two perhaps only
suicide attempt on the part of jeffrey epstein right and at first they said that footage was
missing then they found it and now we have reports today that the video was not preserved
afterall see what White guys G they've preserved the wrong floor video surveillance from me
raw and the floor I so they have deleted the evidence okay and they can't get back because also
the backup system for video footage also was working come on man come law and see no way
this guy stay absolutely not me if you don't believe everything happened the way they said it
did it is a circus there when it comes to that man in jail that's crazy dozen cases Andy Griffith
show for crying out loud or miami C'mon what are we doing here Yes somebody's got to spare
bullets and then they get in the car wreck A stressful situation to boy for it there's just too
much stuff so the ability of this right so the video Mark Epstein suicide was in the drawer they
put and it's like felipe jefferson on the dot hands not the 4th floor sleeping was heidi what did
manage but listen even stuff it's deleted right because this has to be electronic.
KDRV (ABC)
Jan 9 • 7:21 PM

B_JAN_OREG_62

researchers at emory university discovered raising minimum wage by a dollar reduces suicide
rates by up to almost six percent. they studied 25 year’s worth of data from all 50 states to
draw the correlation. it shows the same results of a study from last year where researchers
found a ten percent increase in minimum wage reduced suicides by three-point-six percent.
both studies looked at americans without college degrees. the second round of jeopardy's
greatest of all time brought another round of excitement. we'll give you a re-cap of that and
show you how some fans are enjoying the competition. i'll have the latest on impacts from this

57

next winter storm and forecast snow amounts coming up after the break. "here's a live look at
phoenix from the la-z-boy furniture galleries. watching out for you, this is newswatch 12 at 4.
KMTR (NBC)
Jan 9 • 6:54 PM

B_JAN_OREG_63

money may not buy happiness, but it might be able to buy your way out of unhappiness. at
least to a degree. raising minimum age by a dollar reduces suicide rates by up to almost 6%,
according to a university study. it corporate to study from last year for researchers found a 10%
increase in minimum wage reduce suicides by 3.6%. both studies looked at americans without
college degrees. researchers have become interested why death amongst alkaline records,
drago versus are increasing just by a robust economy. many studies are uncovering the link to
those
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 9 • 6:26 PM

B_JAN_OREG_64

researchers at emory university have discovered raising minimum wage by a dollar reduces
suicide rates by up to almost 6%. they studied 25 year’s worth of data from all 50 states to draw
the correlation. researchers have become interested in why deaths linked to alcoholism, drug
overdoses, and suicides are increasing. despite a robust economy. many studies are uncovering
links between wages and things like smoking. low birth weights, and work absences.
the central oregon veterans ranch has been working since 2015 to help heal veterans who are
suffering from combat trauma. >> today, the ranch received some very special additions to
enhance the therapeutic environment for vets to learn, grow, and heal. anyssa bohanan has
more. >> when you think of therapy animals, you might think of dogs, maybe even cats, birds,
and horses, but the ranch's new members will offer just as much comfort as any dog.
KBNZ
Jan 9 • 6:08 PM

B_JAN_OREG_65

>> the central oregon veterans ranch offers veterans like johnathan courtney a place to connect
with others and heal in a comfortable and therapeutic environment. >> i served for nine years
in the u.s. army and got out and struggled. i had a deployment to iraq and i struggle with ptsd.
that's why this ranch is important. >> courtney has been volunteering at the ranch for nearly a
year, facilitating suicide prevention training, running peer support groups to address struggles
veterans may encounter in their everyday life. thursday, four more members were added to the
ranch family to help provide veterans with another form of therapy. latte, mocha, cappuccino,
and bob. the four sheep have been living on the deschutes county sheriff's office ranch. they'll
now serve as therapy animals to veterans. staff says the animals are generally known to be
calm and promote a peaceful atmosphere. >> personally, i don't know how to work with sheep
or even know the first thing about sheep, but it gives me an opportunity to come out and learn.
it's not necessarily about the sheep. it's about helping and building those relationships with
veterans. >> in addition to the sheep, the ranch is also expanding its greenhouse program,
58

giving veterans a space to grow and harvest produce that is then sold to local businesses and
donated to local food banks. >> right now and what we've been doing for the last year is
growing lettuce and tomatoes. we'll be expanding that this year, 2020. we'll start a community
garden for veterans. it gives a healthy environment for guys and gals to come out with or
without their families and connect and get into the land. >> the programs are all designed to
ensure veterans heal together. >> if you need a place to come, you need a place to connect
with other veterans, the ranch is that place. >> the ranch is open to veterans monday through
saturday, and all of the programs offered there are free. for more information on programs at
the ranch, visit their website, covranch.org.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 9 • 3:40 PM

B_JAN_WASH_32

big Pharma loves themselves so called and there is this is all about presenting suicide right now
I don't Excel American neighborhood to study to contend kids generous for more likely to
commit suicide and depression anxiety Jenna body this mercury eating disorders the rare study
was conducted by questionnaire using non probability sampling of the questions out
questionnaires from within the lgbt community people could choose whether to fill it out or not
2070 questions were analyzed only a 120 these self-identified transgender people only 27 those
were under 26 years old it is only the result of _twenty_ _seven_ young self identified trans
people have been reported related to the suicide of to these 27 people 13 of them reported
having attempted suicide in the past that's where the 40% of all identified trans youth
attempted suicide comes from the second safe 2016 Stone commissioned center for remember
research University Cambridge is so flawed the actual not release the methodology is so it's a
big government at its worse your kid has a substance abuse problem now you get to know and
just shut up and paying premiums it artist depressed anxious and Britain with angst anxiety
wants antidepressants.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 9 • 4:50 PM

B_JAN_WASH_33

the video taken outside Jeffrey Epstein sell a lot of nerves aside what was destroyed by mistake
it's so so this is this is going to move Mike lewis to decide it jeffrey epstein was suicide years the
thing about jeffrey epstein's not murder Tata 900% agree the not murder happened right
Michael Lewis will not come on board and the conspiracy theory trained go ahead in Texas
tonight 9.3 but 60 minutes recently did aid esteem special where they showed his autopsy
photos of course was a criminal sex trafficker who was in jail when the alleged suicide
happened any he was you know the pimp to the stars essentially into the rich and famous so
you have a lot of things a lot of people Dr Michael bond who is friends with apologies to was
hired by Mark asking jeffrey it sees brother to look into the death the autopsy reveals that
jeffrey epstein had been tki which is burst that Seoul's Dr biden says that's a key indicator that
somebody's neck was compressed and you see it more in compression thing you do see it in
hanging any and multiple other injuries what hit officials now say quote he tried unsuccessfully
to hang himself in his cell he shared with an accused quadruple murderer named Nick two
59

weeks before his murder in different Celso this is two weeks prior prosecutors say that hallway
footage was dealt this week due to a mistake by prison workers Here's the mistake they tag
every single video this particular Jeffrey C engage dad July 23rd was tagged as not important so
they deleted because according to prosecutors he had deleted video did not show corrections
officers responding to the cells seen in the video altered you know for sure it's all look he's
leaning forward Frank Michael this is lean forward his eyes wide he's got to come to our side
different situation with the videos also gone who I am and night third letter third we're on the
story third were taken outside Jeffrey Mm-hmm what was their third word of the story we have
a link to autism destroyed no appeal was destroyed Video taken outside Jeffrey s scenes sell on
the night of his first suicide attempt at all Reuters prosecutors me there we led aim all where is
the evidence the you know that they actually get rid of video all the time and that he was ruled
a suicide so there was no evidence to really worry about.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jan 9 • 4:45 PM

B_JAN_OREG_66

a new report shows that a minimum wage increase lowers suicide rates. researchers from
emery university looked at 25 years' worth of data from all 50 states. they found that raising
minimum wage by $1 reduces suicide deaths by almost 6%. this matches a study from last year
where they found a similar trend.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 9 • 10:50 AM

B_JAN_OREG_67

another video when gone it was a video that was missing then founded been didn't exist
anymore of the first suicide attempts by Jeffrey Epstein I guess you could say if that was
illegitimate suicide attempt the only suicide attempt they had when he was in custody before
he was murdered one quick question before we move on from this again the dude was on 60
minutes the other day was prison guys I'm the expert any says unequivocally no chance and
finished someone kill him that was suicide when someone says that does that make you doubt
more.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 9 • 4:15 PM

B_JAN_WASH_34

researchers at Emory University find anyone $ increase in the minimum wage is going to breed
to 6% decrease and suicide rates guy I've actually read it read the full study on this with the
methodology is but if you're asking people who are not desperate all the time for money and if
this one dollar helps get them to that platform it does make some sense I'm a big believer in in
a 15 $ federal minimum wage I'm a business owner I understand the impact of it and still
support for nato what else can she society is be out of work I read about this israel talk about
the minimum wage and suicide being out of work and contributor that so convene over works
so this is one contributing factor working be part of this but I also didn't seem to study any the
60

precipitating conditions that might exist so not exactly ready to say just a experts say a lot of
people who survived a suicide and hopelessness was feeling and if you earn more money you
may be able to maybe feel like you can solve some of those problems that don't get you the
hopelessness so I can see how money would be cut constant money coming in that would be a
factor in the benefit.
KDRV (ABC)
Jan 9 • 11:05 PM

B_JAN_OREG_68

on the firewatch tonight -- when the lights went out in California to prevent wildfires last fall,
many customers lost their cell service too. data from the federal communications commission
shows more than 8-hundred cell phone towers were offline during an october power shutoff
that impacted millions of people. some Californians couldn't call 9-1-1 or receive emergency
notifications. now state lawmakers are trying require telecommunications companies to have at
least 72 hours of back-up power. the bill's author says the law is not about protecting your right
to check your Facebook status, it is a matter of life or death. the telecommunications
companies are pushing back though, because they would have to pay for it. beyond the cost,
the cell tower owners complain the state has blocked their efforts to bring in generators in the
past. they also say generators don't work at every cell tower. raising minimum wage could go a
long way in dropping suicide rates. this is according to researchers at Emory university. they
found raising minimum wage by a dollar reduces suicide rates by up to almost six percent. they
studied 25 years’ worth of data from all 50 states. it further verifies a study from last year. in
that study, researchers found a ten percent increase in minimum wage reduced suicides by point-6 percent. both studies looked at Americans without college degrees.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 10 • 3:30 PM

B_JAN_WASH_35

Olympia report on a Seattle police officer has found that the officers' actions led to a man's
suicide death the civilian watchdog arm of the Seattle police Department issued the findings
this week it says the man was suspected in a hit and run and an officer made Peru's to make
him turn himself then the officers said that the crash had left a woman in critical condition and
she might not survive when in reality the wreck was a minor fender Bender soon thereafter the
driver died by suicide according to the Seattle times the officer was later put on leave for 6 days
a statement from the police Department says the officer's actions did not meet SPD's standards
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Jan 10 • 6:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_36

Police department's civilian watchdog has found that an officer's rus may 28 teen hit and run
case contributed to the driver suicide the office of police accountability said the to get the
suspect to turn himself in the officer told one of the suspect's friends that the crash left a
woman in critical condition in reality it was a fender Bender with no injuries the man became
61

despondent of possibility killed someone and soon died by suicide the opiate says the use of
the ruse shock the conscience the officer was suspended for 6 days without pay.
News Radio KEX
Jan 10 • 4:43 PM

B_JAN_OREG_69

this is a court filing that they have major they've lost forever but forever reached thee
Manhattan Correctional facility video of right outside which was what you need to say to know
who's going in and out of the cell the night have steen killed himself that footage from a
camera in a court filing is gone forever and look at this almost was say okay get sure it it and
that incredible and Mary and their explanation it they've preserved the footage and it turned
out to be from the upper floor of the wrong camera and now occur footage of bumps if they
believe that okay Yeah we all will be left Lot of people but CBS 60 minutes producer on the Yes
when they flew me about it undeniable you have your head you look at the injury on his neck a
photo wouldn't like it or not strength in the back hanging fruit strangulation go never know I N
ou'll G you haven't you have a theory you like you don't accept the way things are right now I
made I don't it doesn't like he killed himself on that yet but I won't be coming this is the uniting
to the left and the right anyone outside of the elite for the Democrat party maybe bloody lip
licking don't have the medical or ever had a nature of the injury but but but but 3 bones broken
neck with a Smith medical examiner said you've never seen before from hanging the fact that
you if you look at the laceration them not there in the center of the neck what you're hanging
yourself you know you you're the luxury of underneath your towline because of gravity could
pull down the Thunder center back how you handle yourself with whipped cream of have injury
another thing they will be a photograph of his cell now that the company was supposed to have
been on suicide watch they took them off suicide watch she claims he never killed himself
before dire try to kill off before he died he was attacked his cellmate so they really felt in El
Erian and electrical a more are for fun about them come to the right he had there or for White
and for all sort of fight them you could use to either kill yourself and that there was a gun what
they eat people of Hawke-Petit it does look like it could they could cause those that I have been
there done that if you look at the photograph you're in a very graphic and very very sharp injury
to his neck Yeah I have to wonder also what point is it fair to say that we're being asked to be a
coincidence there's a year like this just the no one's ever died the MCC before this way would
kill himself into this SIS similar set of circumstances where they had very high security around
them the footage is gone you have doctor Bahn know he's being paid by 16 brother do the
autopsy Don think the Sky's good Yeah why why do you lie about what's in the autopsy.
KEZI (ABC)
Jan 10 • 4:30 PM

B_JAN_OREG_70

now to an update in the case of jeffrey epstein. federal prosecutors say jail house video no
longer exists of the area around his cell during his first suicide attempt. the u-s attorney's office
in Manhattan told a judge today that jail officials kept video of the wrong jail cell. the office
claims a backup system failed to capture footage because of technical issues. an epstein
attorney says the missing video heightens the mystery surrounding his suicide....weeks later.
62

another attorney has requested a court hearing to determine what happened to the missing
video. video is kept from the day he killed himself.
AM 860
Jan 10 • 6:45 AM

B_JAN_OREG_71

Epstein didn't kill himself used to that special on ABC last night all whole league crap maybe she
did to our special live have to and my goodness I wanted one take a shower afterwards it this
guy was so much a cocky Garcia huge big sleaze ball but he had so much money doing great and
I landed the career of him and that's where a lot of these hijinks went on with these underage
girls you buy an island he got money and there's what he would do the jet that all residents
Rouge and they kept these victims kept added and they kept added and they kept at it and they
finally brought to Justice and then of course come all of those the stories about his suicide this
way it was revealed that during his first suicide attempt the video that was taken in me the
surveillance video was taken outside his cell was get ready brace yourself add debt delete
deleted a juror was loop then the then the an accident in the beginning Fetter role prison or
worse of Metropolitan Correctional Center in lower Manhattan one of the highest profile
prisoners in the country the video was I should get only deleted that was the first she was side
attempt quote unquote checkers was doing good 5 wait a second camera Mal flooding cher and
harm the prison guards they were on me instead of checking every half hour like they were
supposed to they were either sleeping it or or browsing the Internet forge to shock a guy that
finaly the pictures inside the show revealed he had long electrical cords for his shame that
mission Yeah and steam didn't kill himself and steam didn't just like I said the day the euro this
Re UK Re Ukrainian jetliner shot down her voice said as soon as it was announced that wasn't
addressed not a coincidence.
KEZI (ABC)
Jan 10 • 6:37 AM

B_JAN_OREG_72

money may not buy happiness -- but it might play a factor in your health. researchers at emory
university discovered raising minimum wage by a dollar reduces suicide rates by up to almost
six percent. they studied 25 year’s worth of data from all 50 states to draw the correlation. it
corroborates a study from last year where researchers found a ten percent increase in
minimum wage reduced suicides by three-point-six percent. researchers have become
interested in why deaths linked to alcoholism, drug overdoses, and suicides are increasing
despite a robust economy.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 10 • 7:41 AM

B_JAN_OREG_73

missing video is raising more questions in the investigation of the federal jail cell death of
convicted sex offender jeffrey epstein. federal prosecutors said yesterday video of epstein's jail
cell when he made his first suicide attempt no longer exists. that's a quote. jeffrey epstein died
by suicide weeks later on august 10th. the well connected 66-year-old was accused of sexually
63

abusing dozens of underage girls. we have a report on the growing criticism of the jail where
epstein was held. >> reporter: a recent "60 minutes" broadcast shows the new york jail cell
where jeffrey epstein hanged himself last august but now there's new focus on the suicide
attempt epstein made weeks before he died. video of the cell exterior where epstein first tried
to end his life was sent to federal investigators and restored last week but on thursday
prosecutors say it's the wrong video. in a letter federal prosecutors said the jail inadvertently
preserved video from the wrong tier at the jail and as a result video from outside the
defendant's cell no longer exists. cbs news legal analyst. >> when i read this letter, i had to
reread it because i said this couldn't be happening. this is madness. >> reporter: nicholas was
epstein's cell mate for the weeks between epstein's july arrest and his first suicide attempt.
bruce barket is his attorney. >> it's the worst facility jail or prison that i've been to in 35 years of
practicing law. >> reporter: the missing jail cell video could reignite speculation of a cover-up as
the detention facility continues to be under fire for multiple failures before epstein died in
custody. >> when you got videotape disappearing, cameras not working, guards allegedly not
being where they are supposed to be, it's no wonder that jeffrey epstein is dead. >> these
things can happen, right? >> these things can happen. but they all shouldn't happen in one
place. >> good morning. these things can happen but all of them happening? what did the jail
have to say about this lost video? >> reporter: well, tony, they've had nothing to say so far to
us. the mcc through the bureau of prisons declined to comment citing the ongoing investigation
into jeffrey epstein death. which comes as no surprise. they remained silent on all things
epstein throughout the course of this investigation into jeffrey epstein death which by the way,
five months ago today epstein died. >> thank you very much. remember the stakes here. it's an
almost incomprehensible series of coincidents. >> she said it's maddening. when she said all
these things can happen but in one place? time after time. i don't know. a lot of questions
there. thank you very much.
88.5 KNKX
Jan 10 • 4:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_37

police department's civilian watchdog has found that an officer's roofs and age 28 teen hit and
run case contributed to the drivers suicide the office of police accountability said the to get the
suspect turned himself in the officer told one of the suspect's friends of the crash left a woman
in critical condition in reality it was a fender Bender with no injuries the man became
despondent Over the possibility killed someone and soon died by suicide the E.P.A. said the use
of the ruse shocks the conscience the officer was suspended for 6 days without pay
KEPR (CBS)
Jan 10 • 5:11 AM

B_JAN_WASH_38

she says she hears alot about ... minimum wage.we caught up with her at this listening session
at a coffee shop where she listened to locals for aboutan hour. she says one of her priorities in
the next legislative session will involve addressing teen suicide ... which has increased over the
last six years in washington state. " were really good at thoughts and prayers to the family..
were not good at figuring out what's the nexus for each one of these beautiful children in the
64

most cases that have taken their life."the new legislative session will begin on monday and is
expected to last through march 12th.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 10 • 11:15 AM

B_JAN_WASH_39

57000 suicides that you might say Wow you know how many established a suicide so personal I
can us now is the third study in a row that's that indicates that what's new about this latest
study can use anything we had done this before this third study indicates that the worse the
unemployment rate is higher the unemployment rate is the more fact windows gonna play and
I think it makes it makes perfect sense that if you're out of a job suicide is one of the things
depression and suicide it you know come hand-in-hand with somebody who can't find jobs they
get the job so that one $ a raise in the minimum wage would be more helpful in that kind of
economy it has less effect otherwise so I looked to see I took two charts style got a number of
people making minimum wage and I got suicide chairs laid one other so in 1980 15% of the
workforce was making the federal minimum wage Wow 15% by 2019 it's down to 2%
of the workforce in how many years from in 1980 to 2019 OK is busy 40 years just comes
brought down while only 2% more than half were under the age of 24 live at home with their
parents is a tiny percentage of people rely on that minimum wage normally they only have that
minimum wage because they move up to get a bonus or something like that after 8 months and
realize ICE's the federal minimum wage Yes okay we can and you can't you can't live on the Fed
over his head I got a visit by state by state that you have as much say visive raising it by one $
there are a lot of States that have a lower minimum wage rise high got federal are these Fed
numbers okay I didn't really do a state by state you have to look at all the different ones Yeah I
want to find out the suicide suicide lapped in 1988 89 as the economy went into recession and
then again it took ill it spiked back up again in 2008 2009 Yeah back up again you most people
are killing themselves are male most of her lower middle class and the majority have some
college or a college degree and killed himself really as the says in this party was study that if
folks are less educated adult because they're the ones more likely to earn minimum wage and
had they have also have a higher risk of depression and suicide it did not raise minimum wage
did not seem to affect the college graduates who died by suicide.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 10 • 4:44 PM

B_JAN_OREG_74

video from outside the cell of jeffrey epstein during his first apparent suicide attempt. no longer
exists thursday prosecutors in the southern district of new york admitted in a letter. >> that the
surveillance video was not properly preserved. prosecutors also said there was supposed to be
a backup system in place but they also cannot find a copy of that video. they blamed technical
errors. the missing videos from july 23th when guards found epstein on the floor of his cell at
the metropolitan correctional center. a federal indictment called it an apparent suicide
attempt. epstein was found dead from suicide in his cell the following month. prison officials
did preserve video from that day. the multimillionaire financier was behind bars awaiting trial
on federal sex-trafficking charges.
65

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 10 • 1:51 PM

B_JAN_WASH_40

Jeffrey Epstein who committed suicide Aden that New York jail I know we find out that they
said that he attempted suicide a couple weeks prior and they had surveillance video of its and it
now no longer these surveillance video of Jeffrey Epstein's supposedly first suicide attempt has
been accidently destroyed due to an and error savings don't believe the this guy committed
suicide after all that's the jail guards were supposed to check on him they didn't the cameras
the were supposed to be trained bottom returned Bob this is a guy they know about it's
Clinton’s at the Royal family their connection to that phil pedophiles any had to be robbed
doubt board dangle out in this case so why yet another problem with Jeffrey Epstein as his first
suicide attempt video has been accidently lead to do what clerical error…
News Radio KEX
Jan 10 • 5:55 PM

B_JAN_OREG_75

saw a story today and PTSD law enforcement groups says that 228 police officers died by
suicide in 2019 that's more than were killed in the line of duty 172 officer deaths due to suicide
in 2018 168 in 17 100 _forty_ _three_ in 16 that means the trend line is headed upward and
that is not good for anyone because everyone of those officers is somebody's mom in
somebody's dad and my husband or wife son or daughter brother sister neighbor friend and it's
just a good reminder it's a good reminder you don't know what someone else is going through
today you don't know just found out their kid has cancer you don't know who just dealt was a
terrible terrible situation just take a minute and calls and remember who you are as a person
and how you want to be remembered he be surprised how polite word a Blue collar roots that
somebody in line and let somebody who's stuck in traffic who didn't intend to Mr. exit now
trying to get back and let that person just just kind gesture base of Press what a difference that
makes I got a message this morning from veteran who was celebrating his 3 years from the day
he walked into camp hope PTSD Foundation of America and he said 3 years ago I was ready to
take my life and for whatever reason I made the decision to walk in there but I didn't think I was
going through the end of the day and each year on the anniversary first year or second year
now the third year he has posted I don't talk about this except this one time per year the camp
hope and and the team there of other veterans save my life so I want to say a big thank you to
those views support can't hope which provides a residential treatment free of charge to our
veterans suffering from PTSD if you know veteran who needs help don't e-mail me coal given
the phone called together they'll get help it's absolutely free.
KTVL (CBS)
Jan 10 • 6:04 AM

B_JAN_OREG_76

Researchers at the emory university discovered raising minimum wage by one dollar reduces
suicide rates by up to almost 6 percent. the city 25 years of data from all 50 states to draw the
correlation. it collaborates a study from leicester where researchers found a 10 percent
66

increase in minimum wage reduces by 3.6 percent. the study looked at americans without
college degrees. deaths linked to alcoholism and suicide are increasing to bite despite a robust
economy. many cities uncovering links between wages and things like smoking, low birth this
year -- that s up 500 from last year. work absences.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jan 10 • 7:20 AM

B_JAN_WASH_41

could help prevent thousands of suicides every year researchers focused on workers with a high
school diploma or less the study published this week in the Journal of epidemiology and
community health found that one $ increase in the minimum wage resulted in as much as
nearly 6% decrease in suicide rate among adults 18 to 64.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 10 • 5:40 PM

B_JAN_OREG_77

Throughout the year. a federal official telling congress this week that proposed changes to the
food stamp program did not consider the impact that would have on veterans the usda plan
would narrow who would be eligible for snap which some lawmakers say would make it harder
for veterans to qualify. >> and leave even more hungry. >> not having enough food to eat is
very real for too many americans. >> and for too many of our veterans more than a million low
income veterans depend on the snap program to feed their families. members of congress like
california congressman mike llevan worry many of them could soon lose their food stamps. >>
this committee is concerned that decisions are being made regarding these resources without
thoroughly considering the impact on veterans, a new us department of agriculture rule will for
states to tighten snap work requirements, which means fewer people including veterans will
qualify, we don't have specific data sets on veterans, pam miller with usda says about 3% of
snap recipients are veterans but because veteran status is not part of the application. >> there's
no easy way to know who they are that's something that concerns lawmakers. >> so veterans
have no significance uh additional importance to given their service to our nation. where even a
phone call to was warranted. >> we certainly want to make sure we're serving all low income
americans, including veterans. are that's going to know. >> you never contacted we did not
lawmakers like florida congressman gus bill racquets also make the argument that hunger leads
to other health issues, particularly a growing epidemic facing veterans suicide food insecurity
can be a contributing factor that could be detrimental to a person's mental health. that's why
officials say they want to identify more veterans at risk for hunger and connect them with
resources like snap.
KBNZ
Jan 10 • 6:38 AM

B_JAN_OREG_78

a new question surrounding the death of convicted sex offender jeffrey epstein in new york city
jail. yesterday federal prosecutors told a judge that video of the area around jeffrey epstein jail
cell when he survived the suicide attempt last july no longer exists. they said jail officials
67

thought they preserved the video but turned out to be video from a different part of the jail.
they also said the footage is not on the jail's back up video system because of technical errors.
re jeffy epstein died by suicide in his cell weeks later.
AM 860
Jan 10 • 11:40 PM

B_JAN_OREG_79

conjoined with euthanasia but medically assisted death is being boosted as a quote boon to
organ donation this excerpt from a story in the Ottawa citizen on Syrians to opt for medically
assisted deaths are increasingly saving more improving other people's lives by also including
organ and tissue donation as part of their final wishes in the first 11 months of 2019 those
patients so described in the province per account for 18 organ _ninety_ _five_ tissue donors a
14% increase over 20 away and 109% increase in over 2017 Murray Many of these Wesley
Smith now writing many of these killed organ donors will not have been dying they've also
generally not have been provided to cite Prevention services says the suicidal ill disabled who
ask for euthanasia are increasingly abandoned to this death with dignity mindset it doesn't have
to be patient idea the trillion gift of life network witches Ontario's organ donation organization
solicits actively solicits the organs of those seem to be killed by doctors Canada decriminalized
medical assistant the death of 2016 and Terrio 3 trillion immediately moved to the forefront of
organ and tissue donation becoming the first 6 in the world to proactively reach out to those
who had been approved for assisted death to discuss donation when death is imminent trillion
must by law be notified this from that same article the Ottawa citizen and see what's happening
as you are depressed or disabled or ill enough physical way cancer said for example and you say
I want to kill myself and rather than having individual rally around you with services to address
you're suicidal fatalism they are rallying rushing to you to make plans for your death not trying
to walk back from the ledge encouraging you to jump because they got bigger better plans for
your body parts and the Netherlands and just how to pronounce it this is in 2018 and and and
the Netherlands 6126 deaths caused by euthanasia or assisted suicide 67 patients were killed
by sake yet psychiatrist other doctor from mental illness 3 children between the ages of 12 and
17 were killed to honor 5 cases of homicide by doctors as a supposed treatment for two or
more elderly disorders quote unquote such as hearing loss balance issues cognitive decline as
Smith writes once euthanasia consciousness grabs called for by the throat it never stops
squeezing when we come back I want to pick up the story and talk about a couple more specific
cases and also address the larger philosophical issue of the importance of suffering to 6 years in
Congress fear and pride I this is Alexander Green chief investment strategist for the Oct the club
just for a moment like to picture the perfect stock no doubt it would have hundreds of billions
in revenue more than ibm Facebook and Google it would probably be a leader in cutting edge
technology like smartphones robotics it would be on the verge of dozens of blockbuster
announcement but most of all it would be ultra cheap trading at less than 3 $ a share no may
seem crazy the such stock exist but it does is cutting edge tech company that has made deals
worth hundreds of millions of dollars with Nokia Microsoft and cisco and a 29.2 billion dollar
deal with Apple it's set to create 50000 new jobs right here in America and Donald Trump even
called it the 8th wonder of the world you've likely never even heard of this stock why because it
trades under a secret name to find out why the secret 3 $ stock can help you retire simply go to
68

one stock retirement Dotcom that's one stock retirement Dotcom beijing well and power
maiden name james Agent decades Sachs these days it seems like we're hearing about another
data breach all the time help saying that ball around a lock-in Jr and Navy 03 gate tex please
and if your private info has been breached it's almost like it's being broadcast to identity thieves
Brenda lost a bank account numbered 00 forward 0 8 yard line report negates antics I good
thing there's lifelock identity theft protection to detect a wide range of threats you might miss
on your own if there's a problem a U.S. based specialists who'll work to fix it Travis matthews
social security number of i5 once no one can prevent all identity theft or monitor all
transactions at all businesses but life lock helps look out for you whether or not your
information is exposed in a brief H join nownd save up to 25% off your first year by using promo
code smart and lifelock Dotcom and promo code smart 25% off terms apply Hey this is jay
farmer CEO of Quicken loans Quicken loans is celebrating our best quarter ever and now we're
celebrating some of the lowest refinancing rate ever rates drop so much that many Americans
can reduce their rent you may be able to save money on your monthly mortgage payments
right now the rate today our 30 year fixed-rate mortgage is three-point 9 9% A.P.R. for point to
3% call us at 800 Quicken or go rocket mortgage back com to learn more rates to change into
something great traditions wonder what it is it's an awesome bigotry what effect for one batch
for the new signage stay put him over the coals and exterior windows they did a great job
helping us create a look we wanted and they got it done quickly I definitely recommend these
guys for Lim bag is the best place I found for quick turnaround and great price no promotional
material with their help I can afford to handouts back to my current customers in my prospects
and it keeps my name and number in front of people at all times and it's a great way to help
built my business Portland bad is a great company to do business with they take orders big and
small and work to get what you want to provide a quality product fast service and they're
honest and friendly we wouldn't go to anyone else from business cards and name badges to
Veal coal Rams signed a sham promotional material this portly Fagin sign has it all when you
want to be seen and collected Green there's only one place to go to portland bad stock com
that's portland bad stock calm portland Rajan sign coming up at midnight its air attacks now
backed dam project I am here welcome back to the dam prop show we're talking about
euthanasia or assisted suicide the death with dignity movement the death with dignity
movement finished just a marketing of assisted suicide I have mentioned some examples in
Canada focusing on core organ donation celebrating people who have decided to take their
own lives and making plans for their body parts also the incidents in the Netherlands where it is
more frequent and just about anywhere else in the world a Dutch teenager's story from the
summer last summer 2019 last year Dutch teenager rate by to 9 inches 14 will never lived to
adulthood overcome this year severe depression the attack caused instead heard the
Washington Post reporting in what he termed a sad last Post on instagram no a potholed and
17 years old road Saturday that she would be dead within 10 days the been so long she added
since she had really been alive the Guardian reporting on the same young lady and her decision
to kill yourself a hospital bed was set up in her parents' home and last week she refused All
food or fluids her parents and doctors reportedly agreed not to force Peter Dutch medical
guidelines stipulate that if a patient withhold their consent quote care providers may not
provide treatment nursing care 17 year-old girl was Lisa Smith on the case again asking the
pertinent question does the exact cause of the girl's death really matter a teenager the terrible
69

psychiatric condition brought on by an attack she suffered was allowed to make herself dead
instead of receiving continued and robust treatment efforts of course people have survived all
sorts of traumas and horrors that were done to them Smith goes on to say this is where all
assisted suicide legalization laws eventually lead this is where they'll lead stories like no pot
Hoven once society accepts killing is an acceptable way to eliminate human suffering there's no
limit to the category of suffering that will eventually testify eliminating the sufferer and
mentioned before the break in the Netherlands elderly people with quote unquote elderly
disorders like hearing loss when you think of assisted suicide in the way
AM 860
Jan 10 • 10:12 PM

B_JAN_OREG_80

David good team he commits suicide the age of 50 David good he killed himself after
Dartmouth College refused to let him cleared his name against allegations he looked the other
way when female students brought sexual harassment allegations to him not against him to
him as Department share last year the college said old a 70 million $ class-action lawsuit for a
reported 14 million dollars but they wouldn't do the one thing that David good team had hoped
they would do a statement proclaiming his innocence defending him women's complaint was
filed in November 28 teen made national headlines Dartmouth for Bhutto was filed 3 months
later in January 2019 got no notice Fuji who is a memory researchers took over the
psychological Sciences Department and 2015 said the students had complained to him and his
colleague a female for Lee Witt with Folio we leave the director of graduate studies was also
named in the lawsuit students who complained to him did not mention some of their greatest
allegations such as rape and did not name the professors at first in fact we lease said students
at ast to wait to be transferred until their valuations friends of the accused professors could not
retaliate against them as it pertained to their greats despite that request both Wheatley and
booed she immediately went to the title 9 office to register their complaints again boutique
named 31 times in the 72 page legal complaint and was never personally accused of assaulting
anybody just accused of looking the other way boutique it turns out had a history of depression
and the toll of keeping quiet his name dragged through the mud brought roaring back by the
time his faculty Deanne rose to his defense he was on the verge of being hospitalized for
depression and treated with electro convulsive therapy any killed himself 3 of his accusers
showed up his memorial reception according to several people who also attended garments
noticeably she's passing at the age of 50 doesn't mention a suicide or course the colleges' role
in it in fact someone familiar with what happened to him in the months and days leading up to
his suicide would have no clue that this lawsuit that ostensibly smear him and college that
refused to let him defend himself publicly is part of a legal strategy that also didn't defend him
publicly even after the settlement had any part to play I mean there's no more devastating
moniker that can be applied to a person these days that and as a predator in the need to wear
and despite no accusations directly to him directly and the record that appears not to be in
dispute.

70

FM News 101 KXL
Jan 11 • 6:15 AM

B_JAN_OREG_81

new questions surrounding the jail death if convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein CBS
molenbeek with more a recent 60 minutes broadcast shows a New York jail cell where jeffrey
epstein hanged himself last August but now there's a new focus on the suicide attempt and
steam made weeks before he died video of the cell exterior were epstein first tried to end his
life was sent to federal investigators and restored last week but on Thursday prosecutors said
it's the wrong video in a letter federal prosecutors said the jail inadvertently preserves video
from the wrong T year at the jail and as a result video from outside the defendant's cell no
longer exists CBS news legal analyst Rikki Klieman when I read this letter I had to Re read it
because I said this just can't be happening this is madness Niklas touchpad Leone was jeff steen
cellmate at the Metropolitan Correctional center for the weeks between and Steans July arrest
and his first suicide attempt bruce bark at the start that we don't turn it is the worst facility jail
or prison I've been through and 35 years of practicing law the missing jail cell video could
reignite speculation of a cover-up as a detention facility continues to be under fire for multiple
failures before Epstein died in custody when you got the videotape disappearing camera is not
working and guards allegedly not being our weather's supposed to be it's no wonder that
jeffrey at seeing is that coming up the fallout over a Royal couple's shaky decision to step back.
News Radio KEX
Jan 11 • 1:25 PM

B_JAN_OREG_82

60 minutes was a big thing on basically did Jeffrey Epstein kill himself and what I guess they
have got is a guy who was the Uzi the baby a doctor who was paid by Epstein's brother to figure
out the truth so realize there's motivation here into telling you that the different teams didn't
also a credible witness that heard that Yeah he's done many many of these these very credible
so certainly one clip from Mike hear from Dr Michael vowed in his name he is baiting and I
believe it he was ae this is a guy who's paid by asking family kind of figure look into what really
happened here with us do you think there was foul play here where the forensic evidence
police so far clear Pepsi point much more to murder and strangulation then the suicide and
suicide by hanging I hesitate to make a fine old opinion until all the evidence is in people saying
well you're being paid by Mark absence of course you're gonna saying it something suspicious
going on that's a reasonable thing for some people think but our job is to find the truth is just to
find out whether a homicide suicide or we’re still haven't gotten all the information and this is
not a guy who had had dealt with situations like this getting thousands of them serious talking
about how rare it is to see the types of fractures from jeffrey jeffrey epstein us I have never
seen 3 fractures like this in me suicidal hanging sometimes there is a fracture the higher bone
or a fracture of the tyrant calmly and not very very unusual to have to do and not 3 and going
over and over 1000 jail hangings suicides in new York city state prisons of the past 40 or 50
years no one had 3 fractures and moon know I just know what I just know what out of
thousands out of 40 years is pretty amazing base in one of the other point he makes is 30 they
have now these pictures come out pretty graphic of of that steam you can see close-ups of his
neck and couple things DC like a line of blood essentially a snack you do not see blood on the
71

news those supposedly used a beast in the pictures EU not see a point where when you have
typically hanging you put a figure on your neck and sort of slips a little bit seeds see almost
markings of slippage which did not seeing also Evade going to some deaths on he the fractures
which seemed to be completely odd and the fact that this the pictures are more consistent with
all Y year essentially wire strangulation van and that tip a cold no jail House hanging of
themselves however the other evidence presented was pretty compelling as well with and you
know what you want to do what the motivation for something like this if it will happen and the
motivation was clear in a suicide note all and site was incredibly powerful I mean you kill
yourself to win sure he makes several points here number one who fc rights kept saying lock
shower for an hour so I mean look you it's your last few 100 teenagers in Iraq beat me 20
minutes of a shower or maybe put it out or shall earn now right no free personal showers
Rossum and and as my wife will tell you I've taken too many one hour showers third is just
awesome however when you're locked in their against her will for one full hour at 60 Minutes
also an admission that this happened I hope that's powerful that's number one incidence how
about this it looks like Noll who made one of the guards who sent in burnt food holy cow Wow
the shower even have me but now but how world flu bird flu times I started to get sad myself
Yeah I'm thinking this is happening to me right now you really see that Yeah the next part giant
bugs crawling on my hands now I I wouldn't that's a pretty bad I don't know exactly what
happens my guesses he wakes up the middle like a cockroach understand he's not used to this
activity likely heat I don't know a lot of people that are I had activity did the couple residences
early in my life really great however those 3 have to build up and that the shower for an hour
but burned food above on hand that's all really bad but it builds really to the final conclusion
which is typically the thing you would right before you commit an actual suicide which is no fun
exclusion point exclamation who to exclamation points no fly no all fine now of course you go
to prison for molesting children us so much fun but not here no clogged 0 but not even a little
fun he says takes you know 5 that's the most ridiculous suicide note I've ever heard he doesn't
see I mean it looks like a couple things I want to bring up to his lawyer as it does look like this
was a noted all like maybe he's whining to his lawyer for better treatment her whatever but
that's not a suicide note unbelievable no nullified the end they don't also points to the fact it
wasn't a suicide why are you complaining we've got about your conditions if you're about to
hang yourself reasons.

72

KXLY (ABC)
Jan 11 • 5:25 PM

B_JAN_WASH_42

an update on the death of eastern washington football player george becker...his high school,
gridley high in california put out a release on their facebook page letting students know they
are available for counceling after what the school said was an appearant suicide...the school is
encouraging it's students to talk about mental health... we would like to do the same, and
remind anyone watching today ...if you need someone to talk to, the national suicide hotline is
there
News Radio KEX
Jan 11 • 1:20 PM

B_JAN_OREG_83

60 minutes was a big thing on basically did Jeffrey Epstein kill himself and what I guess they
have got is a guy who was the Uzi the baby a doctor who was paid by Epstein's brother to figure
out the truth so realize there's motivation here into telling you that the different teams didn't
also a credible witness that heard that Yeah he's done many many of these these very credible
so certainly one clip from Mike hear from Dr Michael vowed in his name he is baiting and I
believe it he was ae this is a guy who's paid by asking family kind of figure look into what really
happened here with us do you think there was foul play here where the forensic evidence
police so far clear Pepsi point much more to murder and strangulation then the suicide and
suicide by hanging I hesitate to make a fine old opinion until all the evidence is in people saying
well you're being paid by Mark absence of course you're gonna saying it something suspicious
going on that's a reasonable thing for some people think but our job is to find the truth is just to
find out whether a homicide suicide or werere still haven't gotten all the information and this is
not a guy who had had dealt with situations like this getting thousands of them serious talking
about how rare it is to see the types of fractures from jeffrey jeffrey epstein us I have never
seen 3 fractures like this in me suicidal hanging sometimes there is a fracture the higher bone
or a fracture of the tyrant calmly and not very very unusual to have to do and not 3 and going
over and over 1000 jail hangings suicides in new York city state prisons of the past 40 or 50
years no one had 3 fractures and moon know I just know what I just know what out of
thousands out of 40 years is pretty amazing base in one of the other point he makes is 30 they
have now these pictures come out pretty graphic of of that steam you can see close-ups of his
neck and couple things DC like a line of blood essentially a snack you do not see blood on the
news those supposedly used a beast in the pictures EU not see a point where when you have
typically hanging you put a figure on your neck and sort of slips a little bit seeds see almost
markings of slippage which did not seeing also Evade going to some deaths on he the fractures
which seemed to be completely odd and the fact that this the pictures are more consistent with
all Y year essentially wire strangulation van and that tip a cold no jail House hanging of
themselves however the other evidence presented was pretty compelling as well with and you
know what you want to do what the motivation for something like this if it will happen and the
motivation was clear in a suicide note all and site was incredibly powerful I mean you kill
yourself to win sure sure sure he makes several points here number one who fc rights kept
saying lock shower for an hour so I mean look you it's your last few 100 teenagers.
73

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 11 • 7:19 AM

B_JAN_WASH_43

questions and conspiracy theories abound surrounding the death of Jeffrey Epstein the wealthy
financier was suspected in human sex trafficking at state was found dead in his jail cell last year
an apparent victim of suicide but as those questions remains 60 minutes decided to investigate
and corresponding share Alfonso previews sunday's reports guards found death staying in
approximately 6 33 am and sources say one of them could be overheard saying 3 that steam
brief forensic pathologist Dr. Michael button who observed the autopsy for the Eckstine family
believes the Jeffrey Epstein died around 4 30 that morning two hours earlier the guards say
they came in at 6 30 they found him they call emergency services be tried the cpr with him he's
dead but rather than leave the body there they take the body to an emergency room Yeah is
that normal protocol know that that's not normal protocol the E.M.S. people normal me
especially in jail could not move a dead body he's right Bureau of prison protocol mandates
suicide scene should be treated with the same level of protection as any crime scene which
death has occurred Gerry Alfonso is with this fashion and welcome what what did the prison
guards do with jeffrey epstein body so immediately after they discovered they took him to the
hospital they were trying to do cpr I am about an hour after that hit the hospital they declared
officially at about 7 30 and then using the word when they did the autopsy the extent what we
know about what was found and Jeffrey Epstein's jail so it's interesting you would think they
would be sparse right this is a fatter all prison highest security out what we have learned our
reporting is that there was multiple she said there are lots of betting and electrical cord
prescription medicine there's actually notes and paper he had written a note and on Sunday
we'll show you what that consent so in the piece you heard saying that a guard was same breed
and jeffrey Brees who did so this is widely known what was happening in the prisoner to we are
sure all we note the wave at the prison was set up he wasn't in a secure area where there are
about 8 cells and said we have heard and our sources tell us that the guards to be overheard
same breed best in breed and what kind of eerie is that after that the prisoners were in that
secure area also started chanting breed at steve bringing so the first day with the prisoners
other prisoners were aware of what was going they know something was going on it's you
know the doors are blocked they probably couldn't see that much is certain they a concussion
the with her the third video surveillance and married him in that area it's a great question we
know that there was video surveillance facing the guards desk which is outside of the area
where he was we are told that the video facing the cells the video that might have seen his cell
door was corrupt and so the question was in his jail cell he is doing you would expect it to be a
Spartan it fairly it was in but was out of Elation very that Salah wasn't we wasn't unusual to find
bed sheets and it there's some very specific Bureau of prisons from called what's allowed inside
his cell and I think you'll see on Sunday when you see the photos that a lot of bedding raises a
lot of questions as you know it has been reported that he made first failed suicide attempt
weeks earlier and yet his cell was covered in betting in sheets.

74

AM 860
Jan 11 • 11:35 PM

B_JAN_OREG_84

state of maine because you eat States to legalize assists sigh th state to legalize assisted suicide
we talked earlier this week on my show with Dr Leonard Sax about the incidence of this the
trend of increasing suicide among individual 10 24 young people acquire that this kind of figure
root causes so on the one hand we were concerned as a country about the trend of increasing
suicide significant increases in suicides over the last decade among young people on the other
hand we're sending a message share at the state level throughout the country that the way to
eliminate suffering is to eliminate the suffer know by the way you're worth more her dad alive
Yeah this started in Western Europe and is taking hold in America it's called the death with
dignity movement and there's nobody more announced on the topic and Wesley Smith he's
been writing about it for the better part of 3 decades Canada just recently discussed the organ
donations was Smith writing that when he first took only publishes first and euthanasia com
some almost 3 decades ago he warned that society society acceptance of assisted suicide
eventually include organ harvesting he was called alarmists and fear monger and yet in canada
there were following the same model of the Western European countries like Belgium and the
Netherlands it's not only allowing organ harvesting to be conjoined with euthanasia but
medically assisted death is being boosted as a quote boon to organ donation this excerpt from
a story in the Ottawa citizen on Syrians to opt for medically assisted deaths are increasingly
saving more improving other people's lives by also including organ and tissue donation as part
of their final wishes in the first 11 months of 2019 those patients so described in the province
per account for 18 organ _ninety_ _five_ tissue donors a 14% increase over 20 away and 109%
increase in over 2017 Murray Many of these Wesley Smith now writing many of these killed
organ donors will not have been dying they've also generally not have been provided to cite
Prevention services says the suicidal ill disabled who ask for euthanasia are increasingly
abandoned to this death with dignity mindset it doesn't have to be patient idea the trillion gift
of life network witches Ontario's organ donation organization solicits actively solicits the organs
of those seem to be killed by doctors Canada decriminalized medical assistant the death of
2016 and Terrio 3 trillion immediately moved to the forefront of organ and tissue donation
becoming the first 6 in the world to proactively reach out to those who had been approved for
assisted death to discuss donation when death is imminent trillion must by law be notified this
from that same article the Ottawa citizen and see what's happening as you are depressed or
disabled or ill enough physical way cancer said for example and you say I want to kill myself and
rather than having individual rally around you with services to address you're suicidal fatalism
they are rallying rushing to you to make plans for your death not trying to walk back from the
ledge encouraging you to jump because they got bigger better plans for your body parts and
the Netherlands and just how to pronounce it this is in 2018 and and and the Netherlands 6126
deaths caused by euthanasia or assisted suicide 67 patients were killed by sake yet psychiatrist
other doctor from mental illness 3 children between the ages of 12 and 17 were killed to honor
5 cases of homicide by doctors as a supposed treatment for two or more elderly disorders
quote unquote such as hearing loss balance issues cognitive decline as Smith writes once
euthanasia consciousness grabs called for by the throat it never stops squeezing.

75

AM 860
Jan 10 • 11:45 AM

B_JAN_OREG_85

welcome back to the dam prop show we're talking about euthanasia or assisted suicide the
death with dignity movement the death with dignity movement finished just a marketing of
assisted suicide I have mentioned some examples in Canada focusing on core organ donation
celebrating people who have decided to take their own lives and making plans for their body
parts also the incidents in the Netherlands where it is more frequent and just about anywhere
else in the world a Dutch teenager's story from the summer last summer 2019 last year Dutch
teenager rate by to 9 inches 14 will never lived to adulthood overcome this year severe
depression the attack caused instead heard the Washington Post reporting in what he termed a
sad last Post on instagram no a potholed and 17 years old road Saturday that she would be
dead within 10 days the been so long she added since she had really been alive the Guardian
reporting on the same young lady and her decision to kill yourself a hospital bed was set up in
her parents' home and last week she refused All food or fluids her parents and doctors
reportedly agreed not to force Peter Dutch medical guidelines stipulate that if a patient
withhold their consent quote care providers may not provide treatment nursing care 17 yearold girl was Lisa Smith on the case again asking the pertinent question does the exact cause of
the girl's death really matter a teenager the terrible psychiatric condition brought on by an
attack she suffered was allowed to make herself dead instead of receiving continued and robust
treatment efforts of course people have survived all sorts of traumas and horrors that were
done to them Smith goes on to say this is where all assisted suicide legalization laws eventually
lead this is where they'll lead stories like no pot Hoven once society accepts killing is an
acceptable way to eliminate human suffering there's no limit to the category of suffering that
will eventually testify eliminating the sufferer and mentioned before the break in the
Netherlands elderly people with quote unquote elderly disorders like hearing loss when you
think of assisted suicide in the way that it's marketed people in excruciating pain people with
no chance of recovery people who have lost brain function are you thinking about people who
are killing themselves the doctor's help under the color of law because they have bad hearing
probably not that's happening the about a 17 year-old girl who was suffered trauma was the
victim of a crime which is 14 be allowed to kill herself with the support of her parents and a
doctor because she won't eat she said depressed still what happened her 3 years later if your
daughter that have happened to your daughter of course I would wish that on anybody but
would you be doing everything you could in listing the medical community anybody else her
peers to try to bring her back to try to help her cope and get on with her life she had a lot of life
to live we just concede the point that said this is what she wants and what about this matter of
suffering is very utility sharing argument that is increasingly popular our secular society
suffering his Bab well we know those of us who are not part of the secular society released are
also people of faith through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God isn't that
what scripture tells us that even if you're not face for you understand that suffering has
benefits Ryan the the biblical truth about suffering our universal truths first of all its
multifaceted mind suffering can make us stronger and innate broken world with fallen men and
women there's going to be suffering so how you cope is important also suffering happens in
community church can be a refuge for those suffering but so can your social circle your family
76

your friends your colleagues co-workers code pressures called volunteers is suffering equips us
for Ministry think when you pass your own trials and tribulations you can just say to another
I've been there you can overcome this the way that I did let me share a story with you and it
won't get into other aspects of the benefits of suffering better more religious in nature but they
certainly exists and what is are secular media do this that suggest that these consideration of
some of these benefits now you may remember a recent case it's again these are heartbreaking
cases but you can't but public policy be driven completely by sentimentality as a player Connery
of Flannery O'Connor famously observed Sentimentality these the gas chamber port city
assisted suicide dungeon remember Brittany Maynard she was young woman who had a
contract terminal brain cancer covered by people magazine in point of fact she I would was was
declared by people magazine to be a hero in a cover story about her plate she chose the
nonprofit compassion & choices which is say assistance his advocacy organization and she was
fighting to expand definite for with dignity laws nationwide that was how feet chose to spend
her final days and this was lauded by the Press Corps CNN intern extraordinary person of 2014
the messages clear Wesley Smith on the case again DiNapoli's for Trump's living with significant
limitations is undignified assisted suicide is courageous another young woman named Lauren
hell who died naturally of the same cancer because britain Maynor to pursue and from suicide
he'll struggle to continue playing basketball college basketball the level at the time and raise
money for cancer research despite promoting a far more positive life detaining message and
meaner didn't hillary see an open and people of about two words people voted for her words
to make which is a lot for that magazine to Brittany Maynard in the wake of a suicide and the
glamorize society a lot of newspaper outlets don't print stories about suicide some he
committed suicide they don't include dad in the obituary.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 12 • 3:58 PM

B_JAN_OREG_86

life is full of bittersweet transitions it's difficult to know how these changes will impact this over
time for some people difficult transitions like retirement divorce or loss of a loved one can hit
harder than expected and H tribute to feelings of hopelessness or even thoughts of suicide and
the risk of suicide is even higher from in over 50 who served our country go I feel like maybe
that's why I support from friends and family makes such a big difference every day your words
and actions could help save a life together You can help save veterans crisis line doesn't match
a lot can happen in an hour we are here to make sure you don't miss it stay connected.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jan 12 • 5:20 PM

B_JAN_OREG_87

according to data released to the youngest person to die due to links from vaping but just 15
years old, previously the center for disease control had said the youngest with 17 years old over
2600 people across the united states have been hospitalized with lung injuries from vaping the
cdc has been recommending people to avoid vaping products associated with thc the study
does show that the number of people vaping has been declining lately. another study shows
that raising the minimum wage by even a dollar can decrease suicide rates by up to 6%.
77

researchers from emory university looked at data over the last 25 years looking at americans
without college degrees. and they found a correlation with a 10% increase in minimum wage
reduce suicides by 3.6%. the city began as deaths of alcohol drugs and suicide continue to rise
despite the healthy economy.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 12 • 7:25 PM

B_JAN_WASH_44

black people especially are not dying well african-americans are more likely to diet all ages from
all causes no matter what the disease cancer even suicide is the third leading cause of death for
black males aged 15 to 24 I'm on a mission to change that so they use a fan therapy which is
just one tool there's many tools we can use friend eating well exerci is dieting but as a licensed
mental health therapist I know the power of their P I've seen it every day even with my hospice
patients who had been on their last breath I noticed that as they work through their
unprocessed Chama Chama that's been stored in their body is manifesting itself through
somatic symptoms you know those somatic experiences that headache that just won't go away
back and neck pain that stress that stress that is really keep going Yes no matter what their race
but is really impacting those who look like me I know this firsthand so I really want you to do
your part because we think about mental illness aside from suicide related to depression we
don't typically think that can coalesce we also felt recognize the correlation we're tal any rights
racism the health deficit for blacks in America can literally be traced back to American-style
slavery jim Crow to present day where black lives matter so we need a hashtag to prove that it
does we can't even eat ice cream our own living room without being killed mile family mile just
52 when she took her last breath my okay many he was 54 when he died alone traveling to
another state in search of work and health insurance in an attempt to prevent the inevitable I
was probably one of the last people he attacks before he took his last breath my cousin and In
Montgomery was just 34 when he died and the world mourned the loss of air museum the
hassle who was slain in the same way so many black boy who looked like can have died.
News Radio KEX
Jan 13 • 11:45 AM

B_JAN_OREG_88

Are you able to tell when your child is depressed most parents look for general signs of sadness
but depression symptoms comply out in other ways to lose such as eating last 0 breeding
differences and sleep pattern search trouble getting out of bed here for signs of depression to
watch for first his irritability or intense anger it's not unusual for teenagers to be here DeBoer
angry but if it's a new thing in its persistent or if it's getting him into trouble depression could
be at the root of it a second sign his difficulty with relationships a few teenagers fighting with a
friend were spending less time with friends unusual that could be a red flag third is your team
acting out in dangerous ways a certain amount of risk taking is normal course but if address
beyond reasonable boundaries there could be trouble for Earth watch for signs of self-injury
any behavior like cutting burning deserves and media attention depression is one of the most
common conditions among teenagers who contemplate suicide so if you see any signs of
depression talk to your child and find out what's going on if they don't open up immediately
78

keep reaching out to get to the truth and if you discover problems seek professional help a
quick your teenager with the tools to find positive solutions when life gets tough to help our
children thrive visit focus on the family Dotcom.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 13 • 12:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_45

the U.S. Supreme court is rejecting an appeal in the case of a Massachusetts woman who was
convicted of urging her boyfriend to take his own life prosecutors say in 2014 Michelle Carter
said Conrad Roy text messages urging him to kill himself Carter was 17 at the time she told her
18 year-old boyfriend get back in his carbon monoxide filled truck that he had parked outside a
Kmart Michelle carter is now serving 15 months behind bars on an involuntary manslaughter
conviction.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 13 • 7:35 PM

B_JAN_WASH_46

according to the report to tell them Hey if you or your car hit two cars and they put someone in
a hospital in very critical condition now the person that did it big guy he Wasn't bear but there
was a lady they're and she's like well he Yeah is that the car is registered here unregistered cars
here he's not here without pass along the message so she hits him up and he's you know on
your hips in cars and someone is in critical condition now according to reports I read the report
the other day but the guy was like I don't think I heard anybody ground like no you did now
with in a week this guy who was alleged to have hit these cars he already had been battling and
heroin addiction the for like 20 years so and he has some issues with the law before because of
this he became so concerned allegedly because of this he committed suicide with in a week
now when the woman found out that this incident was only fender benders and did not have
someone in critical condition this woman she reported the lot officers lie to the office of police
accountability now the report suggested that the officer was in the wrong to use a roos vel the
officer contained in the report he was not responsible for the suicide police chief Carmen best
has since suspended the officer without pay for 6 days and as a result well that that seems that
seems like it to me that's the that we talk about this a lot when we're in this kind of thing
happens them it tip of the iceberg right leg if if the plan was Ha Ha Ha we're going to lie about
somebody being in critical condition that I first of all I don't know I don't I know if it's legal or
not it sounds like something that should be like I don't think the police should be able to lie
about stuffed trying not to turn away well okay if you don't finish go ahead go ahead well no I
mean that that that just about interrogation tactics and purposes paid your free and Perry
Mason and hold on there do right but that somebody and who you have already big that person
has been arrested Gen really I think like it it seems like two different environments when you're
just when you're knocking on someone's door and say Hey can you pass the message along
we're looking for this guy that they don't suspected anything adds to that level I mean a hit and
run you should leave the scene of an accident first and foremost I read that but but that's a lot
less severe than and then somebody who maybe is involved in some crime that really hurt
somebody you're a bunch of people and you need to get information from them to save lives
79

that kind of real quick I'll give mine awareness and I'll be honest with you I read the entire
report before it was in an article on Friday when I first read it I was livid I would assault man
how did this officer only 6 days I was eating and met luck to you I mean this man is I was I hate
look man I don't like that they that the gentleman committed suicide I don't like that at all Yeah
I don't know if this was a call like like you don't mean like that you don't know nobody can say
think he committed suicide because that cot lied I so I is something like this happened to
someone that I knew okay I get it he was a friend of some friends of mine our and was involved
in an accident I believe I heard somebody and within the next day and age had had died of an
overdose us who do we know if it was on purpose Sir if it was just too like we don't we don't
know but that still doesn't doesn't take away it's it's it's different you know how when
something happens to you you Experience something field for about maybe that's why I'm a
little a sensitive.
KDRV (ABC)
Jan 13 • 4:15 PM

B_JAN_OREG_89

the supreme court has refused to hear the appeal of a woman serving a 15-month sentence for
her role in her boyfriend's suicide. michelle carter was convicted of involuntary manslaughter in
20-17 in the death of conrad roy. carter messaged roy during the time that he contemplated
and attempted suicide. when he had doubts -- she encouraged him to go through with it.
carter's argument to the supreme court was that her conviction was based solely on those
words and was there for a violation of her first amendment rights. with the high court declining
to hear carter's case -- her conviction remains in place.
News Radio KEX
Jan 13 • 12:23 PM

B_JAN_OREG_90

… we have been undergoing review of being in close cases is he he says he saved his life so
that's got to make folks severe feel good speaking of saving lives you support the threemember suicide hotline I can imagine you're not do all no absolutely you know we have one
now 800 to assist them in 3 to 5 5 of them I like to make it simpler in fact you know the new
York Metropolitan area is in the top 12 when it comes to the use of of that crisis line Bob I think
but I think I read the 3 3 numbers would be much easier.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jan 13 • 6:34 PM

B_JAN_OREG_91

the u.s. supreme court rejected the appeal from a Massachusetts woman who influenced her
boyfriend to die by suicide. the court's decision leaves michelle carter's conviction in place. she
was found guilty in 2017. three years prior, she repeatedly texted and called her then boyfriend
encouraging him to take his own life. he died by suicide at 18 years old. carter was 17 at the
time. she is currently serving a 15- month sentence.

80

KMTR (NBC)
Jan 13 • 6:32 PM

B_JAN_OREG_92

the supreme court rejects an appeal from the massachusetts woman who pushed her boyfriend
to commit suicide via text. the high court's decision leads michelle carter's involuntary
manslaughter conviction in place. a judge found her guilty in 2017. convicted of texting her
then boyfriend conrad roy the third to repeatedly commit suicide. she ordered him in a phone
call to take his own life. roy died by suicide and was 18 years old. carter was 17 years old at the
time. She’s serving a 15-month sentence. her lawyers argued her conviction violates her
constitutional right to free speech. speculatively shooting at a florida naval air station an act of
terrorism.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jan 13 • 4:34 PM

B_JAN_OREG_93

a case of a girl who was convicted in her role of her boyfriend’s suicide is convicted of
manslaughter in the death of conrad roy. when he had doubts, she encouraged him to go
through the suicide. the argument to the supreme court is that her conviction was based solely
on those words and was therefore a violation of her first amendment right. the high court
declined to hear her case; her 15-month conviction remains in place.
KDRV (ABC)
Jan 14 • 4:52 PM

B_JAN_OREG_94

netflix is releasing a new docu-series on former n-f-l star and convicted killer aaron hernandez.
the three-part documentary is called 'killer inside -- the mind of aaron hernandez.' days after
being acquitted of a double homicide in 20-17 -- hernandez was found dead in his cell. his death
was ruled a suicide. he had been serving a life sentence in the murder of his fiance's sister's
boyfriend. 'killer inside: the mind of aaron hernandez' will be released tomorrow.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jan 14 • 8:20 PM

B_JAN_WASH_47

after the death of Jeffrey Epstein ABC aired pictures he tells us guards and federal prisons were
no longer be able to surf the Internet in a letter to Bureau of prisons employees director cathy
Hawks lawyers said Internet use would be caught in order to limit distractions the letter
obtained by ABC news said technology cannot be an enemy causing guards to take their eyes
and ears off the interactions around them the change follows criminal charges against two
guards MCC Manhattan who were allegedly perusing the Internet instead of conducting their
appointed rounds in the hours before Jeffrey Epstein died of suicide talks the letter also said
hiring would be a priority this year.

81

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 14 • 2:45 PM

B_JAN_OREG_95

detainees in Japan complained about lack of medical care that's the top complaint for
Detainees in the U.S. to both sets of immigrants also long for some regular outdoor recreation
time and then there's the most tragic challenging both countries mental health and suicide
attempts by detained immigrants are common says jim comey she's an attorney who
represents detainees in Japan I called to that aggression it and so we sent this is very important
for me to say keep on saying that pasted not commit suicide creates some ire for praise he did
not lose hope that's dumb best together last summer 200 detainees in Japan went on a hunger
strike resulting in the death of a Nigerian man in the U.S. the government now force feeds
immigrant hunger strikers through the nose while the U.S. has detained thousands of
immigrant children over the last few years that does not happen in Japan detainees in both
countries are being held longer and longer these days government says the crackdown is
because of fake refugees who try to game the system back
AM 860
Jan 14 • 9:40 PM

B_JAN_OREG_96

we've talked about this issue before main last year I believe became the 8th state to Green light
the so-called death with dignity legislation euthanasia or assisted suicide and as we've seen
across the pond in Western Europe once you open the door to to legalize assisted suicide at the
hands of medical professional he goes to some very ghoulish places it's not the end it's just not
what you think it's not just the terminally ill cancer patient on his or her last breaths it's a whole
new definitions of what qualify as legitimate Malla these for accessing we goal assisted suicide
services so-called senior disorders like hearing loss the person who is most covered this
movement over the last 25 years in this exciting close as leslie Smith and he's on the job began
with the reference I just made to this development Canada was this that is an author and senior
fellow at the discovery Institute Center unhuman exceptionalism was Lisa thanks so much for
joining us again appreciate it so tell us about what's happening with the they the institutional
organ donation network up their Ontario he have Rowley alarming because what I've pointed
out and assisted suicide you can nation debates that when you make a life for killing about
what we're talking about it's an absolute human suffering at some point people start to say well
look it's a good amount of people being killed in Belgium and megan months they actually are
on obama with mentally ill people people without any other organic almost to go to hospitals
want to die because mentally ill they're killing them and then error wheeling them in two
surgical suite still have their organs harvested I bring that up we have two kids here will say well
that's Western Europe that belgian have on or nothing like that here in the United States walk
can of our closest culture because you don't get any closer to being an American in terms of
culture has sued canada and Canada where the Supreme court created a positive right to
euthanasia mean lethal injection you finish where doctors weekly injection the organ donation
nonprofit which of course we have here in the United States everywhere context people who
asked to be euthanized and House for their organs have some really disturbing trend when you
think about it because you don't have to be really on the verge of death in Canada to be
82

between injected you have there have been up this quote reasonably foreseeable which could
be years away and they're also by the way about to liberalise even back out and say you're
going to have people who are not actually in the process of being euthanized and the organ
though they shame organizations going to contact them and say well when you're killed they
won't say it that way but that's what we're talking about can we have your liver and we have
your heart and that could be a triggering event because the media is actually promoting in
canada so that somebody is having difficulty getting through the night if you well the idea that
their deaths can had greater value than their lives could be deterred and that makes people
want to be killed and realized also that the other people who are not given suicide Prevention
so somebody laughter so someone be killed I want you to asia they're not referred to us to a
suicide prevention service to help them understand why they should not want that they're now
not only killed but referred to an organ donation organization a truly awful Yeah I mean think
about it our centers say jesse White if you don't sign the back ear driverless here organ donor
calls Hey jesse White gives you call Hague you get the snap polls you know we really like your
kid how you say if you decide that this is too much to go on I don't make light of it but I mean it
is so cool shows a saddle better word to describe it that you have the state essentially
cheerleading your demise and the media who are supposedly Yeah you know for standing up
for the powerless right there's another thing that's going on in canada I announcer airport in
particular but doctors have told now that if they are and a court order and said this is a court of
appeals that if 80 legally qualified patient asked to be killed that doctor must either kill the
patient as a positive light to the patient or must squat and salute to the doctor that you'll first
Dr. mellow will kill the patient that word is no medical conscience puree hippocratic oath
leaving doctor or Shura the fake catholic doctor because they're the ones who sued and you
believe that the homicide that's what we're talking about the Cardinal sin have to hire a Hitman
you have to hire a hit man or an F the courts have said if you don't want to do this get out of
the shadows and what's really awful about this when you think about it in terms of Liberty is
like canada have a stronger protection of freedom of religion the United States their charter
guarantees the right to freedom of religion and conscience were cars here in chief right to free
exercise of religion and even though their that very strong Canadian protection the court said
there's a stronger right which of course the cordon then led to equitable and equal access to
health care and a non charter right and we've seen that here in the United States has trumped
a specifically explicit and enumerated chart right because the culture of death will not be
denied it speaks to the issue of how this inevitably expand once it's legalized up and down age
demographics across different realities Both psychological as well as physical what we've seen
what the experience in the Netherlands and Belgium may prepare even on the West coast in
places like oregon and california tells us what happened the nurse wounded think out why
would people White people support legalization of assisted suicide euthanasia it's because they
keep killing of an acceptable answer to human suffering and the idea of killing of acceptable
because of human suffering then are a lot of people who suffered for far longer period may
suffer hard at greater our anguish or greater experience discomfort that people who were term
only jail and so logically how can you deny so it's somebody you have cancer and it's going to
for 6 months the activists say well Let's give them a assisted suicide so the person would have a
lot of 9 months my made terrible fear I ie Yeah I wanted to see through it like to walk how do
you say to that person how do you play notable person and the anguish because they've
83

become the table in fact over the period of time people get more used to this they don't and so
you end up as has occurred in the Netherlands with even the mentally ill and belgium you have
to blow one of the reflections locker of you have a woman and because we need to move a
farmer right she was sexually quick David by a very famous psychiatrist or psychologist your
attention and she went public and said look guys H could damage it my all the ability to put
Dayton in a sexual way they get nothing so she had to not a psychiatrist and she was so
distraught because nothing was done not second psychiatrist you and life's just remarkable was
Lee Smith author senior fellow at the discoveries the Center for a center on human that Shaw's
who you should absolutely follow and you should definitely follow this stuff with dignity
movement what's happening in in 8 American States and Canada in Western Europe this is this
is a real threat that the culture of death was is this that was thanks so much for joining us again
appreciate it thanks for having me.
KVAL (CBS)
Jan 15 • 5:15 PM

B_JAN_OREG_97

we're learning new information - the u-s Virgin Islands government today suing the estate of
disgraced millionaire Jeffery Epstein. the lawsuit claims epstein forced underage struck the us
Virgin Islands government today suing the estate of disgraced millionaire jeffrey epstein. the
lawsuit claims epstein forest underage girls as young as 12 to have sex at his home there. the
lawsuit is also claiming the victims were practice he held in sexual servitude and at least two of
them were recaptured by epstein, after they try to escape. the charges in the lawsuit which also
target companies controlled by epstein in crude rate, human trafficking, and child abuse.
epstein died from an apparent suicide last year. while awaiting charges for reportedly running a
child sex trafficking ring.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 15 • 5:52 AM

B_JAN_WASH_48

the spokane county jail is in the process of installing taller railings... in hopes it will prevent
suicide among its inmates.the current railing is about four feet tall... but the new ones will go
from the floor to the ceiling. the jail tells 4 news now the project will cost about 22- thousand
dollars. expected completion is set for some time in february.
KONG-SEA
Jan 15 • 11:18 PM

B_JAN_WASH_49

in 2016, a police officer's wife was shot in the head with his gun so she survived, thank god. the
mystery is far from over. it is now the subject of a new podcast called the officer's wife. we
have the first look at the true crime chronicles. mat crew and jessica boynton with sweethearts.
matthew works for the police department. >> matthew was off duty and away from home. he
called dispatch claiming his wife is home alone and suicidal. body cam video captures the
moment officers arrive on scene. >> children are inside but no sign of jessica. behind a locked
closet door, they find her, bleeding from the head. >> stay out, matt. >> they discovered matt's
84

police issued 40 caliber block underneath his wife's body. police pronounce jessica dead but
they're wrong. >> they are calling me the miracle child. >> why is that? >> because what i went
through, not a lot of people survive through it. >> jessica went under a medically induced coma.
>> what they are telling you? >> they tell me it was self- inflicted. >> it was suicide? >> yes. do
you believe that? >>> no. >> police found two bullet holes but one bull. >> doctors who treated
jessica note that both of her hand were pristine and unmarked so who fired the bullets? >>
reports reveal text messages from jessica's phone to matthew saying, i can't do this anymore.
this is not the first time that i have had suicidal thoughts. i love you and the boy. >> because of
that suicide text and jessica's dna on the gun, matthew is cleared and returns to work. months
later, matthew is arrested but not for the shooting. >> whose bag is that? >> jessica's. >> and
the content of the bag? >> jessica had filed a formal complaint after matthew took her
belongings while she was in a coma. >> you put me in a situation. i don't have any other choice.
>> matthew is fired a arrested on two felony charges. years later, jessica continues to fight for
answers and custody of her kids. >> i see them every day and watch them to grow more and
more into the little men they'll get to be one day. >> you don't get to see that? >> no. >>
earlier, we went to investigators who spent seven years unwrapping this case. we are joined by
brandan keith from wxia in atlanta. thank you so much for joining us.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 15 • 10:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_50

prosecutors in the Virgin islands are suing Jeffrey Epstein's state alleging he used to private
islands there to trafficking abuse girls in nearly two decades the plaintiffs allege that steve
organized a search party to catch one teenager who tried to get away their lawsuit also claims
that stings associates conspired to cover up the alleged crimes after his suicide in a New York
jail last summer.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 16 • 6:50 PM

B_JAN_OREG_98

we're learning of a rather shocking statistic today it involves the rigors of firefighting the
numbers show that twice the number of firefighters in the U.S. died by suicide that in the line
of duty CBS news course on carter evans has this report port this was probably his 4th slather
how much you care area and Lulu still treasured the mementos from their son Billy's dream job
working as a firefighter paramedic for the sacramento fire Department busy this firehouse in
this city 20 bad calls share of kiddo that involve everything from suicides to gunshot victims to
knife things to fights these guys see some things that you can't see ese think the things that
really saw and experienced change can O Y Yes we knew he was deteriorating and leaver
helpless his mother says a brutal domestic violence call was a breaking point this woman was
lying on the ground covered in blood in front of her children and one may God back to the
station he chance law student after more than 20 years as a firefighter Billy resigned and got
help from posttraumatic stress but his mental struggles continued then came valentine's day
2016 I found he hanged himself fire departments across the country are grappling with similar
stories at an alarming rate in 2019 reported suicides among active and Retired firefighters were
85

almost double the number who died in the line of duty we're just losing way too many good
men and women jeff still found the firefighter behavioral health alliance one of the only
organizations that tracks first responders suicides when we put the issue before mom we arere
expected that in a certain manner that is very strong career his give help don't ask for help
because we want to be the weak link in Sacramento support has become a priority firefighters
now Tre is peer counselors so they can spot trouble early fire captain keith play the days of
ignoring a problem and just gone well the deal with it or gone if a worker working next to me
I'm with you 48 hours at a time I don't know if you're not being yourself and it's up to me it's
my duty to to say something a certain point if not you directly to my supervisor so now here
you are sounding the alarm for first responders we are if we could have done something Dan
he'll start that maybe outcome would have been different it's estimated that only roughly half
of all firefighters suicides reported the numbers really could be much higher fire official we
spoke with say departments need to look at creating a shorter shifts so the firefighters can get
more sleep and down time.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 16 • 8:54 AM

B_JAN_WASH_51

what you have to pay attention to period now Hamas is a whole host of physical changes that
can also lead to a notion all changes that psychiatrist Jennifer pain she directs the women's
mood saw a Center at Johns Hopkins University she is the most women experience mood
swings the ICC's Liu Irritable are anxious but women who have a history of mental illness like
Hinds they're like key to Experian it's more serious symptoms women who have a previous
diagnosis of major depression or anxiety disorder are going to be at greater risk during the
period that possible and is also higher risk for women going to meet her life P votes to changes
in korea there are divorce children going off to college payne says the women who are really
struggling need treatment if you're having serious depression and Europe functioning as
affected area having suicidal thoughts you just feel completely hopeless that is a major
depressive episode that absolutely needs treatment that treatment she says can be the fault of
talk therapy and or medications antidepressants can you know help a woman I'm get out of
major depressive episode on antidepressants also can be very helpful for anxiety symptoms but
getting a diagnosis and treatment she says can be an uphill battle severe common situation for
many women and doctors are not keeping up with that.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jan 16 • 9:40 PM

B_JAN_WASH_52

emotional testimony in olympia, from friends of a mother, killed by an estranged husband.
drew mikkelsen shows us there push to protect other women like her. >>> she was kind, fears,
open, loyal. >> reporter: before tiffany hill became a mother of three, she was a marine, she
believed in serving her community. >> that is the legacy she wanted to leave for kids. >>
reporter: last november, she was shot and killed by her estranged husband, she was in her car
in an elementary school parking lot in vancouver, washington. her husband killed himself later
that day. >> we heard the gunshots from our classrooms. >> reporter: friends told her story to
86

state senators, a cautionary tale. >> she was given a no contact order, for 64 days in a row he
violated that. >> the state believes if the defendant is released, he will kill the victim. >>
reporter: he was arrested for violating the restraining order, and despite the concern of
prosecutors, he was released on bail. five days later he killed tiffany hill. >> i beg you please
consider tiffany.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 16 • 5:10 PM

B_JAN_WASH_53

the spokane comedy club is mourning the loss of one of its own. tony russell was an air force
veteran who found a home at the comedy club in the past year. friends say russell dealt with pt-s-d ... and last week, he committed suicide tonight, his freinds honor and memories.. our
maher kawash is live with what they had to say. i'm told tony russell was never afraid to tell
people he loved them. loving ... giving and welcoming ... that's just the type of person tony was.
his friends say tony's biggest priority was always making sure everyone around him was happy.
tony was just 37 years-old ...working at the spokane comedy club for the last year--doing
anything he could to help out. tony joined the air force in 2003--- serving for four years in the
middle east and on several military missions around the world. his friends say he dealt with p-ts-d - in fact, his mother says six other members from russel's airforce squadron have committed
suicide. but she says he brought the family a lot of joy ... and they believe he's at peace now.
02;59;50"he never had an issue telling people that he loved them ... that's kind've rare to find a
male who will be like ' i love you' just in everyday passing and he did that a lot." 09 tony's
friends at the comedy club are honoring him with a special tribute show at the end of the
month. it's on january 27th at seven p-m. that event is free to get in ... but they'll be taking
donations to help the family with funeral costs. it's no doubt ... tony will be missed at this club
and everywhere else in his life.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jan 16 • 4:29 PM

B_JAN_WASH_54

welcome back to take 5 thursday addition, the whole gang is here. >> hello, everyone. >>> this
next story is something that caught my attention today. a restraining order can help someone
feel safer, but state lawmakers say there is a way to use technology to offer potential victims
even more security. there is a bill in olympia to give those who seek protection from potentially
dangerous people, another option and it would be on their cell phone. we spoke with the friend
of a washington woman who thinks the law could have saved their friends life. >> reporter: this
bill if it passes will be known as the tiffany hill law. tiffany hills story is a sad one, and her friends
and her state senator hope that her murder might help prevent other murders. hill was killed
just last november, right before thanksgiving, by her estranged husband in a vancouver school's
parking lot. tiffany hill had just picked up one of their three children and after getting a chase
with police, her estranged husband shot and killed himself. tiffany hill had protection orders,
but her husband repeatedly violated them, calling her, stalking her, texting her and he even
tried buying a gun. under a proposed bill, recipients of protection or restraining orders would
get alerts on their cell phones if their potential attacker comes within 1000 feet of them. tiffany
87

hills friends think such a law might have saved her life and that's why they came to the capital
to tell her story to lawmakers. >> i would rather have my best friend here but to think there is a
possibility that one other child will have their mom, this is all i have to do now. this is it. i feel
like this is what tiffany would want. >> reporter: this is the third year this bill has been
introduced in the bill sponsor who lives in that same area where tiffany hill was killed, she
thinks all this new attention might actually help the bill get past this year, in addition to being a
mother of three, tiffany hill was a u.s. marine and her friends and family say if she were to be
remembered or honored for something that would help her community after her death, that
would be a perfect tribute. back to you.
KBNZ
Jan 16 • 8:57 AM

B_JAN_OREG_99

it's a statistic that will surely shock you. twice as many firefighters in this country die by suicide
than in the line of duty. fire departments are sounding the alarm. carter evans reports. >> this
was his fourth leather helmet. >> reporter: this couple still treasure the momentos their son's
billy dream job working as a firefighter paramedic for the sacramento fire department at the
busiest firehouse in the city. >> 20 bad calls a shift that involve everything from suicide to
gunshot victims to knifings to fights. these guys see some things you can't unsee. >> reporter:
do you think things that billy saw and experienced changed him? >> oh, my, yes. we knew he
was deteriorating. and we were helpless. >> reporter: his mother says a brutal domestic
violence call was the breaking point. >> this woman was laying on the ground covered in blood.
in front of her children. and when they got back to the station he just lost it. >> reporter: after
more than 20 years as a firefighter, billy resigned. and got help for post-traumatic stress but his
mental struggles continued. then came valentine's day 2016. >> i found him. he hanged himself.
>> reporter: fire departments acrohess t country are grappling with similar stories at an
alarming rate. in 2019 reported suicide among active and retired firefighters were almost
double the number who died in the line of duty. >> we're just losing way too many good men
and women. >> reporter: jeff founded the firefighter behavioral health alliance one of the only
organizations that tracks first responders suicide. >> when we put this uniform on wepe're
excted to act in a certain maernnd , anth iats br save,ontrg, craous.geou you help don't ask for
help. we don't want to be the weak link. >> reporter: in Sacramento support is the priority.
firefighters are trained as peer counselors so they can spot trouble early. >> days of ignoring a
problem and just going oh, well we'll deal with it are gone. if you're working next to me i'm
working with you 48 hours at a time i'll know if you're not yourself. it's my duty to say
something. if not to you directly to my supervisor. >> so now here you are sounding the alarm
for first responders. >> we are. >> if we could have done something then, started a
conversation then, maybe the outcome would have been different. >> reporter: it's estimated
only roughly half of all firefighters suicide are reported so the numbers really could be much
higher. fire officials we spoke with said departments need to look at creating shorter shifts so
that firefighters can get more sleep and down time.

88

B_JAN_WASH_55

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jan 16 • 6:05 PM

more police office use died from suicide them in the line of duty last year and alarming statistic
from Blue help a mental health advocacy group for police and their families and 20 you're 2019
228 police officers died by suicide 132 were killed in the line of duty when compared with the
previous year duty Des decreased by 20% of suicides increased by 35.
KAYU (FOX)
Jan 16 • 8:52 AM

B_JAN_WASH_56

health alert this morning -- idaho governor brad little is making it easier for residents to get
ahold of the suicide prevention hotline. instead of calling 2-1-1 -- then getting transferred to an
operator -- who would then give you a ten-digit phone number to call-- all you have to do is dial
those three numbers. 2-1-1- will now take you to the idaho care line and idaho suicide
prevention hotline. the idaho department of health and welfare shows suicide is the second
leading cause of death i idahoans between 15 and 34. between 15 and 34. this year.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 16 • 11:20 PM

B_JAN_WASH_57

the spokane comedy club is mourning the loss of one of its own. tony russell was an air force
veteran who found a home at the comedy club in the past year. he died by suicide last week.
friends tell us tony's biggest priority was always making sure everyone around him was happy.
tony joined the air force in 2003--- serving for four years in the middle east and on several
military missions around the world.his friends say he dealt with p-t- s-d.his mother tells us six
other members from russel's airforce squadron completed suicide.she says russell brought the
family a lot of joy ... and they believe he's at peace now. 02;59;50"he never had an issue telling
people that he loved them ... that's kind've rare to find a male who will be like ' i love you' just
in everyday passing and he did that a lot." 09tony's friends at the comedy club are honoring him
with a special tribute show at the end of the month. it's on january 27th at seven p-m. that
even will be free to get in ... but they'll be taking donations to help the family with funeral
costs. we want you to take a moment to look at your screen... this is the number for the
national suicide prevention lifeline... if you are struggling with depression and are having
suicidal thoughts --there are people standing by to help at all hours of the day.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 16 • 10:13 PM

B_JAN_WASH_58

Michelle kelly carter the Massachusetts woman convicted of encouraging her boyfriend to
commit suicide back in 2014 will not be released from prison sometime next week after serving
less than 10 months a 15 month sentence card was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter in
the death of 18 year-old conrad roy the third will be released from the Bristol County House of
correction start off on Thursday less than a year after she was sentenced a judge determined
89

that Carter who was 17 at the time caused the death of roy when she ordered him in a phone
call to get back in his carbon monoxide filled trucks parked in a kmart parking lots and take his
own life.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 16 • 11:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_59

by the time this photo was taken I had been 30 foster homes I had been molested and have
been raids I had also attempted to take my life by suicide I didn't know it then but that's smile
and personality would help me out way more than I knew as you guys can probably tell my life
and always sorrow that set by parents worked really hard to provide for their growing family
but like most people in the inner city of detroit they fell victim to the crack epidemic with the
things that my sister and my brothers and I were put into foster care system I with over 400000
kids in foster care system meaning viewer eventually meet Mary employee or beef come a
friend a foster child many positive like myself suffer from PTSD anxiety in a multitude of other
mental illnesses but 9 matches we all learn how to communicate with them when I was 16
years old I became homeless but I was not hopeless I knew that I had obtained my gd talking to
a full-time job and get a job wasn't hard part the hard part was keeping a job by the time I was
20 years though it had already worked a dozen jobs and he hit it and the problem was my issue
with authority and my issue is rooting from foster care I just couldn't I couldn't do I was lashing
out of the customers was lashing out at my managers that was until I got a job at dealers that's
why I'm Crystal made this they were the first people who help me accountable for my actions
but then also make sure they were OK that I knew he was OK I was behaving that way and kind
of lashing out it taught me to Ashley put my energy toward something productive like myself
goals I'm never one time my first time actually I lashed out at Crystal she told me I got my
things I was for sure it will be number 21 on the job Liz but she didn't fire me and said she asked
me why why did you behave that way no one else ever ask me why I told her about my time in
foster care and and she made Pacific time to communicate with me by the time I left killers I
was a top sales person all because Mavis than Crist took the time to communicate in the listen I
ever wanted was a family of my own I was young led me to be in very dangerous relationships I
found myself the same type of relationship I had seen growing up is very dangerous and very
non good that wasn't too I took some time to love myself and I met christopher we met on an
online dating site and we moved within about a month meeting each other I trusted him
because he could actually listen and I will give him all my concerns he actually understood like
most couples we've had our ups and downs you know we've evened the score other most
unlike most couples Kris her had to learn how to deal with a partner who has PTSD and more
importantly how to communicate with them I'm coming I asked for her one time how did he
deliver my personality disorder he says the more that he understood my childhood the better
he could actually communicate me as an adult some underlying underway he talked to me he
learned about much time in foster care and I realized that I did not have a normal childhood
therefore would not have a normal adulthood we're coming up on 8 year anniversary I wanted
with that being said he buys you guys can probably guess I have a hard time building friendships
jumping from a Foster home to foster home it was very hard for me to understand how to build
sustainable relationships I find myself wanting to be in control I find myself having extreme
90

anxiety and that leads to self-sabotage and burn bridges this is really our have lost a lot of
friends I burn a lot of bridges because my attitude and because my way not communicating
with my friends these other friends I lost because of that I had to learn how to not let foster
care affect my current life and it was very hard because most foster children like myself we do
suffer from anxiety so feared trauma that was cause for foster care this is an example of what a
text message look like from maine I take to holidays my birthday very seriously because those
things I never thought as a child so when someone flakes no-show it I actually take it personal
and brings it back to the 7 year-old kid that no one wanted I experienced in foster homes new
people new religions knew everything and at first I thought that was a bad thing but as an adult
I learned to use those skills like can take those things sidelined bill my new friendships fos
because not a bad thing it's a learning opportunity and the N Faso adults are just like us not just
like you guys you know we just had a different life experiences don't think you have to do to
become a friend a foster child is to listen and learn how to communicate but that should be
easy because you got should be doing that with everyone anyways right thank you so much
88.5 KNKX
Jan 17 • 4:15 PM

B_JAN_WASH_60

jeffrey epstein was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges authorities say he killed himself in
prison one of its teams victims as mayor elise pointed out said in a court filing that he was that
she was pressed to have sex with Dershowitz here of course has repeatedly denied these
allegations and these are claims he made in the interview then he's also said before at this
point in the legal case both sides pursuing each other for defamation I should note we reached
out to a lawyer for the woman who accused are sure it's the lawyer was not immediately
available for comment.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 8:15 PM

B_JAN_OREG_100

Shannon Jefferson was among at least 14 native Americans who died in Washington and
Oregon County jails over the past decade more than a third of those deaths were suicides
according to the centers for disease control American Indians and Alaska natives have the
highest suicide rate of any racial or ethnic group in the U.S. jail only heightens the risk a very
Frank here this is awful and issued a Raith Margaret Steverson as a professor of social work at
the University of Kansas who study American Indians whose size and now we have not been
successful in figuring out what it takes to help native American people if they're going to be
incarcerated and maybe a lot of them should not be what do we need to serve a House thinks
that incarceration Steverson says Ideally jails would adopt culturally sensitive policy and
procedures that would include designing health and who said Chris screenings with cultural
backgrounds in mind attorney Ryan Travis that would also like to see that happen but he says
right now we're just not doing the basic care this noted he represents the key jefferson in a
lawsuit against one can County over her daughter's death crevice scratch his first jails need to
ensure that general health and welfare of inmates is being met he offers an example we're
talking about something as basic as before you how someone in isolation you have them seen
91

by mental health professional to determine whether or not that's a safe place for them dress
that says that didn't happen and Shannon Jefferson's case just one of several failures he says
contributor to death in court filings the chief deputy if Y can jail Wendy Jones said there was no
indication the Jefferson might be suicidal in an interview John said she couldn't speak to the
case because of the pending lawsuit she did say as Y can County has become more diverse her
staff has become more culturally aware taken them all have that 4 people had a small
understanding that people had faith we need to relook at because there are other up becse we
need to consider that Jones says let Tino was followed by native Americans comprise the
largest minority populations in her jail and of deaths are rare they do happen in fact 3 years
after Shannon jefferson die by suicide her cousin Paula jefferson also died in the Y can jail the
apparent methadone intoxication apologize for his family did not wish to speak for this story
For Vicky jefferson life changed forever after the death of her daughter she's now caring for her
grandchildren there many times I wanted to get that they didn't I knew I had a beautiful chose
to take care of Jefferson recently agreed to settle a lawsuit against Spokane County she says
she doesn't want any other family to go through what she did that was reporter ost Jenkins and
Julie about th in this is booked and Barry at least 120 people have died by suicide in northwest
jails over the past decade and their deaths bring up a really essential question how preventable
our I think there's some risk and kill themselves are going to do I just don't I think in theory we
could see it could be proven more but not for and I don't think that we should and accepts this
raid and suicide ality in jail it's inevitable.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 6:00 AM

B_JAN_WASH_61

a York South Carolina woman pleaded guilty of fatally poisoning her 64 year-old husband by
putting eye drops into was water for several days in July 28 taint the woman told the judge her
husband was abusive and she did not mean to kill him she tried to commit suicide during the
investigation prosecutors said the woman destroyed her husband's well so she could inherit his
million dollars.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 17 • 6:30 AM

B_JAN_WASH_62

the spokane comedy club is mourning the loss of one of its own. tony russell was an air force
veteran who found a home at the comedy club in the past year. he died by suicide last week.
friends tell us tony's biggest priority was always making sure everyone around him was happy.
tony joined the air force in 2003... serving for four years in the middle east... and on several
military missions around the world. his friends say he dealt with p-t-s-d. his mother tells us six
other members from russel's air force squadron committed suicide. she says russell brought the
family a lot of joy... and they believe he's at peace now. 02;59;50"he never had an issue telling
people that he loved them ... that's kind of rare to find a male who will be like 'i love you' just in
everyday passing and he did that a lot." 09tony's friends at the comedy club are honoring him
with a special tribute show at the end of the month. it's on january 27th at seven p-m. it'll be
free to get in... but they'll be taking donations to help the family with funeral costs. if you're
92

struggling with depression... or are having suicidal thoughts... here's the number for the
national suicide prevention lifeline. there are people standing by to help at all hours of the day.
KAPP (ABC)
Jan 17 • 6:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_63

some locals testified in olympia -- hoping to push a bill forward that would help law
enforcement who need mental health help. house bill 2406 would create a specialty license
plate.... where the funds would go directly toward helping police officers obtain support and
training for mental health and wellbeing. yesterday -- the committee heard from a wash-dot
employee and yakima resident ...who had a close, personal experience to this issue. (susan: "on
january 8, 2004, my brother a yakima county sheriff's deputy shot himself in the head with his
duty gun in the bath tub, mimicking the first suicide call he went to as a deputy almost eighteen
years earlier to make it easier to clean up his blood and brain matter, all because he did not get
help he needed to fight the demons that haunted his mind." his mind."the demons that
haunted his mind." another person who spoke at yesterday's hearing was west richland police
officer allen jenkins. his story has a better ending... he was able to get help...after going through
multiple traumatic experiences while on duty...including an officer- involved shooting. ("after
that it was a downward spiral over the next three years, responding to an eight year old who
was choking and i was unable to revive him and he died right in front of me, my son was eight
years old at the time you know all i could see was him lying there...i became depressed,
untrusting of those around me, i was unhappy with my family life, my career and just life in
general..i stand before you today to talk about the impact mental health services has had on my
life.") local representative brad klippert was also there speaking in support of the bill.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 12:10 PM

B_JAN_WASH_64

Stephen sister Rosemary says the reality was much darker I think my brother was screaming her
life Steven Clayton was found dead on July 2018 at the bottom of the stairs of his Lake Whaley
home police initially thought he suffered a fatal flaw or heart attack but Rosemary says lab it
immediately started at Acting strangely financial records papers artwork and mementos
everything you can think of that she could throw into the fire chief to into the fire pit including
their ahead she said her brothers will also seemingly vanished so your brother told him he had
will your nephew saw the well and now it's gone astray after getting toxicology results officers
called the clayton House reported finding several suicide note the House full of gas and land
clayton lying on her bed breathing but unconscious after recovering in the hospital she was
arrested in Stevens' death whatever she thinks is my brother could have time to cause her to
want to make sure the film constituents you for taking somebody's life Craig pleaded guilty to
voluntary manslaughter.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 4:25 PM

B_JAN_WASH_65

93

the concern you just mentioned that's right that's right and so now we ask every single our goal
is to ask a 100% of our conversations if their thing about kaine himself now the key is that we
learned in the data were to ask early in the conversation which is a surprise to us somewhere
between message 8 and 20 is the sweet spot of and ask to do we learn from the best wage task
is to start with an expression of hair and then Thirdly to after that I have a very direct question
that doesn't use the word suicide but instead uses even the phrase are you thinking about
killing yourself or the phrase are you thinking about death are dying so we ship this policy early
and 2019 and early 2019 we had an 85% satisfaction rating from my user base and we ended
2019 with an 87% satisfaction rate from texters I think you can actually attribute some of it too
is always asked policy people like when you ask they feel scene they feel more comfortable
sharing because you asked Nancy Lublin is CEO of crisis Tex line their data is a crisis trends
downward thank you for your time thank you and then text line number is 7 4 won 7.1
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 6:45 AM

B_JAN_WASH_66

the number of suicides has fallen to its lowest level in more than 14 years that's after the
numbers peak to act that chief for buzz and in 2003 that number made headlines prompting
Japanese authorities to take the problem seriously and reef frame suicide as a national mental
health problem there's been an increase in psychological support services and focus on
changing corporate practices to allow employees under tremendous strain to take leave.
AM 860
Jan 17 • 7:35 AM

B_JAN_OREG_101

a three-part documentary I love crime documentary is when they do one netflix or hbo
whatever the new one that's out right now is about though the Karajan and tragic life of Aaron
Hernandez the new the new england Patriots superstar college football star what a punt court
sure did broken soul and a life that was so complicated and what's fascinating about this
documentary about Aaron Hernandez who was your memory killed himself in jail after being
convicted of killing his friend and his me see if I get this right and his fiancee his sister's
boyfriend gun 9 named Odin Lloyd and what's fascinating about this documentary is they have
tons of jailhouse recorded phone calls he made sure you really got an insight into who he is or
who was and he was like a little boy in a man's body he was so women sure he was such he was
he was such say album like try to be such a tough guy with people and he had this kind of Jekyll
and Hyde personality and you know the stories are coming he was convicted of the murder of
Odin Lloyd they didn't convey a cool day acquitted him on the murders of these two men
supposedly dumped a drink on him at a bar he had won the best lawyers money combined was
a guy's name Jose is it I'm drawing a blank but of not bull not a large ds Buyer as zero but jose
baez he's he's like he's the guy that got Casey Anthony off so he's he's a solid lawyer and me
they are acquitted Hernandez are killing those two guys in the drive-by even though look very
obvious that he did it based on the evidence Here's what was fascinating he's got to get this off
my chest is I don't give too much away if you like those documentaries check out on netflix he
killed himself and left a note to his fiancee he said one of those things he said her is it your all
94

you're going to be rich if you're rich he was under contract with the Patriots but all this went
down they released him because he was charged with murder he was convicted of murder he
was appealing the conviction Massachusetts had a law that if you die while you're in the
process of appealing murder conviction they must throw the murder conviction out and
exonerate you because the argument is an old archaic law the argument is you're not appear to
participating repeal or your defense should they wipe the slate clean wiping the slate clean one
of the steps we force the Patriots to give his surviving his wife but she was his fiancee actually a
lot of money because he was under contract this kid had that was it was a 90 million $ condo 40
million just money a lot of money lot of money to be a linebacker but there was a wide
receiver tight end was a tight end and one of the best in the game hand so they believe that he
was so how rude that he knows who because he was acquitted of the murder of the two men
right that was the second trial and was the only time he was emotional in court but look back of
his head his the mother of his child and his little girl and he was crying he was weeping they
were like why was he weeping and he didn't do that through without any any time else was
pretty stoic guy well the areas he knew was last used the stadium is planned to kill himself
medicines he was exonerated the other two murders they knew about this this law in
Massachusetts that would wipe his forget they would there's a word for it there was a war
going on there's a legal term for this process of but did not think it was a was a real weird I
forget the word any how long story short ultimately the the Patriots and the state of
massachusetts got the last laugh in the end because they got rid of that law after this all went
through the courts the the state of Massachusetts ruled and through abatement was called
abatement that was the work of the first phrase they use and they got rid of abatement and
that rule no longer exists the if you if you died while you're appealing your murder conviction
will not be thrown out anymore in the state of massachusetts itself it's a fascinating
documentary it will break your heart this he was let down by everybody his mother is portrayed
very badly in this documentary is for his late father was portrayed as a really kind of rough
mean no non-sense disciplinarian he hung out with this woman who was dying of cancer who
was his cousin and she seemed to be frankly kind of a bad influence with a lot of bad people we
hung out with bad you think about this eric you know you know the nfl better than I do he was
like 20 to 23 years old at the height of his superstardom in the nfl now my 23 year-old would be
able make car pain without a lot of guidance he's a multimillionaire nfl star at 23 years of age
he's a kid but it showed video surveillance of his home his big mansion in massachusetts right in
the Boston area as a Patriot it was like exactly what you think that kid would do he This these
growing kind of overstuffed section holes in a pool table and said it would be what like a kid
would do if he had millions in good-bye House and put the stuffing it in the pool in the back and
everything so you know you take people on his thrust them into positions where they are
making the kind of money that 60 and 70 year-old CEO those captains of industry make you
know how would you expect them to behave you know I mean it is quite a story and and then
they found out ultimately at the end the third episode I think it's 3 episodes total they donated
you they were going to donate his brain to the to research and he had that condition the junior
sale also committed suicide he too had essentially a scramble brain for all the hits they took
over the years as football players went up when you add up all the time they spend football
players spend getting hit as kids as their brains are developing I guess it's not entirely surprising

95

that a 28 22 year-old it with with perfect mental capacity might be pretty not they have 50
million $ to play with.
KREM (CBS)
Jan 17 • 6:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_67

well mental health we know is one of the biggest issues facing today's youth state leaders in
idaho are trying to promote better programs though for students. now a proposed one million
dollars could go towards additional resources and training maybe in northern idaho they'd like
to look at trauma informed teaching practices. maybe eastern idaho they would like to look at
more training around suicide prevention and bullying. it's whatever the local districts need. in
the best interests of their students. the money will go towards helping idaho students who are
dealing with social and emotional changes.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 8:25 PM

B_JAN_OREG_102

in the case of the Mason County jail some cells that were built for a single inmate now have 3
inmates in them they're using Holdings sells as permanent housing to be fair after some deaths
in Mason County Jail the sheriff's in Mason County put booking restrictions in place and
eventually reduced their census because they realized they could not safely run such a crowded
jail and what jail staff and advocates see happening these types of jail conditions aren't
addressed and a lot of cases the problems are just going to continue to get worse I think the
biggest danger in jails and again the data that we collected on deaths really shows this is suicide
around half of all deaths in northwest jails are the result of suicide he was the leading single
cause of death according to our analysis I want to pick up on that point now turn to Reporter
conrad Wilson comment you spent a lot of time this year looking into this problem of suicide
and jails that's right elected one case we found in southern Oregon that raises questions about
whether jails are doing enough to prevent suicides that involves a young woman named know
butterfield he faced some pretty serious trauma and life eventually ended up in the Josephine
County jail and we remind listeners that this where does contained descriptions of suicide in
may not be suitable for everyone Yes and if you or someone you know is contemplating suicide
call for help now the National suicide Prevention hotline is free service answered by train staff
the number is 102.3 8 to 5 5 that's 800 to 7.8 to 5 5 and Conrad Wilson picks up the story in
Josephine County after 40 days in the Josephine County jail Juneau Murray butterfield hanged
herself using a bedsheet herself I was one of the somebody Robert sell these corrections
deputy at the King County jail and he's speaking to organs deep weeds investigated butterfield
death last September on the day she died soon as I saw it I got a radio call butterfield died
behind bars at the age of 34 never was stacked field to do this any Jews always you know the
old strange Lou until further but she never seen that type of years before she died butterfield
was diagnosed with schizophrenia she felt through gap after got the health care system before
landing in the County jail records show failed to keep us safe herself butterfield was in the jail
on misdemeanor charges the Josephine County sheriff's office won't talk about butterfield staff
citing potential pending litigation also refused to discuss their suicide Prevention efforts we
96

don't know if or how the jail treated her mental illness think talking tour for human and pete
you everything else something not right before she died Butterfield on Susan Cubs sent the
Jalen email alerting them of butterfield mental illness she never heard back but Tom says she
spoke on the phone to her knees in the weeks before she died Elan conversation we had you
know obvious he was very other inmates told investigators her mood changed she stopped
eating and hit in the quarters ever sell many joke commanders say the top thing they worry
about a suicide but some of them say they're not preventable you're going to happen John
Bishop is the former executive director of the Oregon State Sheriffs' Association I think this
summer is going to kill themselves are going to do it I just don't I think in theory maybe you
could say it could be preventable with not practically I don't think that we should accept this
rate of suicide ality in jail it's enough to vault Sir Radcliff is the managing attorneys for disability
rights Oregon she's met with inmates in jail administrators around the state we know a lot
about suicide Raskin in terms of what those risk factors even for an individual who doesn't
come out and say it and feelings aside suicides like butter fields where inmates is betting on
their bed frame to hang themselves have been well documented concern for decades earlier
this year and Mark Engel commander Rick there's just gave a tour of his very crowded jails April
2017 the jail in Vancouver Washington made a controversial change because of the potential
and the risk we have done away with that cheats instead the joke it's extra blankets the suicide
resistant there harder terrible but today she had to go because have the potential for harm and
he's speaking from experience between 2012 and 2016 9 people died by suicide in jail those Is
deaths in a short amount of time brightest spotlight Honda accord canning main jail the deals
made other changes to install molded plastic bunks that are harder to tie things up and they got
rid of many traditional doorknobs shower hooks and they train their officers about how to
better manage mental health crises jail has not had a suicide since July 26 two I'm julie about th
and you're listening to booked and buried and investigative special from the Northwest News
network in Oregon public broadcasting we're talking about the alarming death rates in County
jails across the northwest the hundreds of jail deaths in the northwest over the past decade are
linked together by a thread of loss the profound grief for the parents it's siblings and children
who were left behind but in some cases those losses resulted in real changes a reason to hope
that there's more than just tragedy in County jails the jail staff can learn from past mistakes and
that's what reporter austin think inside when he traveled to Whidbey Island to talk to the family
of Keaton Farris after farris died his father and the new jail chief farmed and unusual bond in
Fred serious his home near cocoa on Whidbey Island there's a wall of photos of his son key can
the fairest chokes up as he recalls the last time he saw his son and last hug they gave each
other at risk do you not know how many more times like that you know as a father check and
beyond her competence should after keeping died naked dehydrated malnourished on the
floor of his isolation cell the island County jail Ferris was angry at the system and that the
people who let his son died the first family and their supporters picketed and marched outside
the jail the family also filed a lawsuit investigation found jail officers shut off the water to keep
himself after he flooded it and then failed to ensure he received adequate water on the night
he died staff didn't check on him for hours to jail officers were later charged with falsifying
logbooks which makes what happened next after the TV cameras went away and the lawsuit
said old all the more remarkable.

97

KONG-SEA
Jan 17 • 11:30 PM

B_JAN_WASH_68

comedian richard pryor is in critical condition tonight and given less than 50/50 chance of
surviving after suffering thd-degree burns. >> he was in a drug psychosis. i was there. it ended
up as a suicide attempt. >> wow. >> yeah, he was way ahead of his game. kind of like mike said
where he was talking about the struggle. remember back in 1977 >>> he did a sketch when he
was acting like the first black american president. he was -- being funny with it. he was talking
about how the lack of -- the lack of blacks in the nfl, the afl back then. >>> this is something
now that we are talking about black quarterbacks now to this day with the deshawn watsons
and the lamar jackson's. he was so ahead of his time and he used satire to speak about social
injustices way back in the day. i mean -- every comedian gives him credit as that person they
looked up to. >> oh, yeah. >> game changer. >> he paved the way for so many people. all i've
heard is like -- i was fan of richard pryor growing up. my favorite movie as a little kid was the
toy. i used to love that. >> i loved the toy. >> i watched it a hundred times. i heard so many
stories over the years about richard pryor. i got to go back and watch this. i hope they have a
documentary about him one day. he really did pave the way but he was troubled man. >> he
was a larger than life personality. we saw all his flaws. he had such a hard childhood and grew
up all these ways and used comedy as an escape almost. it was fascinating life to see. not to
mention he got married seven times, twice to the same woman. he has cool story. it is
unfortunate we lost him so soon.
KTVZ (NBC)
Jan 17 • 6:00 PM

B_JAN_OREG_103

our plan is to make it a teen center dedicated to the at- risk and homeless teens. and help
reduce that suicide rate and help give them that neutral place to come to that they may be able
to come to us before they make a permanent life decision, or they become lost in the system."
andi buerger says there will be a meeting on the 25th at redmond city hall from 10am to 11am
for people to find out more information on how to volunteer or donate. for more information
on how you can donate, visit the online version of this story at ktvz dot com arielle brumfield,
newschannel 21.
KEPR (CBS)
Jan 17 • 6:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_69

on thursday, officer alan jenkins with police and state representative from benton county
testify at the capital in support of house bill 24 06, a bill that would introduce the washington
law enforcement officer health and wellness special license plate. >> i will encourage you to
move the bill forward and help us, continue to protect the citizens of washington state and
fight for your safety on a daily basis because we love you and appreciate you and we moved to
the sound of the guns when everybody else is running away. >> the license plate sponsored by
the fraternal order of police in washington and money from the purchase of the plate would go
toward funding to support law enforcement health and wellness from the traumatic
98

experiences they go through while on the line of duty. >> commit suicide in front of his six, 16year-old son, the look on that kids face, i will never forget. >> 2019, nationwide, 228 officers
committed suicide versus 132 that died in the line of duty. we want to reverse that trend, we
want to better prepare these young men and women before we send them out to give them
the tools to help deal with the stresses of police work. >> reporter: if approved, the license
plate will cost $40, a small price for the big price officers make to keep our community safe. >>
police officers are human beings like anybody else, we are susceptible to all the different things,
all the different emotions everybody else goes through. it is important officers keep healthy,
not only physically but also mentally. >> reporter: the bill is under consideration in waiting
approval from the legislature. if approved, the bill will take into effect october 21, 2020. in
judeo, action news.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 8:41 AM

B_JAN_OREG_104

the Chinese government has been trying to encourage couples to have more children and the
number of suicides in Japan has fallen to its lowest level in more than 14 years there's been an
increase in psychological support services and focus on changing corporate practices to allow
employees under tremendous strain to take a leaf and police The amount of overtime work
however Japan still has one of the highest suicide rates among advanced economies.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jan 17 • 12:25 PM

B_JAN_OREG_105

that story was reported by austin Jenkins of the Northwest News network he joins me now
austin you describe what sounds like a pretty harsh conditions and britney Smith case concrete
floors a cramped space are these kind of conditions pretty typical of jails they are actually the
Cowlitz County jail a comparatively is pretty modern facility that so many of the jail's here in the
Pacific northwest are old and they're not suited to handle as many people as they now How's
keep in mind a lot of these jails were built in the early amid a 18 80s when the whole focus on
how you incarcerate people was very different and more about being tough on crime was
about putting people in cells answer forgetting about them rather than rehabilitating people
the jail staff the jail managers admit that they're not ideal in some cases citing unsafe
conditions curious how the chief deputy of the Mason County jail in Mason County Washington
put his name as deputy Kevin Hanson we have a deal is designed to House for 6 people have
150 people there's no way to say bad things happen in the case of the Mason County jail some
cells that were built for a single inmate now have 3 inmates in them they're using Holdings sells
as permanent housing to be fair after some deaths in the Mason County Jail the sheriff's in
Mason County put booking restrictions in place and eventually reduced their census because
they realized they could not safely run such a crowded jail and what the jail staff and advocates
see half Inning of these types of jail conditions aren't addressed and a lot of cases the problems
are just going to continue to get worse I think the biggest danger in jails and again the data that
we collected on deaths really shows this is suicide around half of all deaths in northwest jails
are the result of suicide was the leading single cause of death according to our analysis I want
99

to pick up on that point now interns reporter conrad Wilson conrad you spent a lot of time this
year looking into this problem of suicide in jails that's right I did one case we found in southern
Oregon that raises questions about whether jails are doing enough to prevent suicides that
involves a young woman named know butterfield she faced some pretty serious trauma and life
eventually ended up in the Josephine County jail and we remind listeners that this story does
contained descriptions of suicide in may not be suitable for everyone and Yes and if you or
someone you know is contemplating suicide call for help now the National suicide Prevention
hotline is free service answered by train staff the number is 102.3 8 to 5 5 that's 800 to 7.8 to 5
5 Conrad Wilson picks up the story in Josephine County after 40 days in the Josephine County
jail Juneau Murray butterfield hanged herself using a bedsheet in herself I was somebody
Robert selfies corrections deputy at the King County jail he's speaking to Oregon state police
investigated butterfield death last September on the day she died soon as I saw it I thought Oh
call butterfield died behind bars at the age of 34 never was stacked field to do this any Jews
always you know the old strange needed to further but she never seen that type of years
before she died butterfield was diagnosed with schizophrenia she felt through gap after got the
health care system before landing in the County jail records show failed to keep us safe from
herself butterfield was in the jail on misdemeanor charges the Josephine County sheriff's office
won't talk about butterfield staff citing potential pending litigation they also refused to discuss
their suicide Prevention efforts we don't know if or how the jail treated her mental illness think
talking tour for human and pete you everything else something's not right before she died
Butterfield on Susan tugs son the Jalen email alerting them of butterfield mental illness she
never heard back but Tom says she spoke on the phone to her knees in the weeks before she
died Elan conversation we had no obvious he feared other inmates told investigators her mood
changed she stopped eating and hit in the quarters ever sell many joke commanders say the
top thing they worry about a suicide but some of them say they're not preventable you're going
to happen John Bishop is the former executive director of the Oregon State Sheriffs' Association
I think this summer is going to kill themselves are going to do it I just don't I think in theory
maybe you could say it could be preventable with not practically night I don't think that we
should accept this rate of suicide ality in jail was inevitable off Sir Radcliff is the managing
attorneys for disability rights Oregon she's met with inmates in jail administrators around the
state we know a lot about suicide Press Pena in terms of what those risk factors even for an
individual who doesn't I'm not saying that I'm feelings aside suicides like butter fields where
inmates is betting on their bed frame to hang themselves have been well documented concern
for decades earlier this year and Mark Engel commander Rick there's just gave a tour of his very
crowded jails and April 2017 the jail in Vancouver Washington may A controversial change
because of the potential 10 the risk we have done away with that cheats instead of the joke it's
extra blankets the suicide resistant there ordered a terrible but the day she had to go because
of the potential for some harm and he's speaking from experience between 2012 and 2016 9
people died by suicide in jail those deaths in a short amount of time you're brightest spotlight
Honda accord canning main jail the deals made other changes to they installed molded plastic
bunks that are harder to tie things up and they got rid of many traditional doorknobs shower
hooks and they train their officers about how to better manage mental health crises the jail has
not had a suicide since July 2016 I'm julie about th and you're listening to booked and varied
and investigative special from the Northwest News network in Oregon public broadcasting
100

we're talking about the alarming death rates in County jails across the northwest the hundreds
of jail deaths in the northwest over the past decade are linked together by a thread of loss the
profound grief of the parents siblings and children who were left behind but in some cases
those losses resulted in real changes a reason to hope that there's more than just tragedy in
County jails the jail staff can learn from past mistakes and that's what reporter austin Jenkins
solid he travel to Whidbey Island to talk to the family of Keaton Farris after farris died his father
and the new jail chief farmed and unusual bond in Fred serious his home near coup fell on
Whidbey Island there's a wall of photos of his son key can fairest chokes up as he recalls the last
time he saw his son and last hug they gave each other letters to you and you don't know how
many more times like that you know as a father chicken beyond her opposition after keeping
died naked dehydrated malnourished on the floor of his isolation cell the island County jail
Ferris was angry at the system and that the people who let his son died the first family and their
supporters picketed and marched outside the jail the family also filed a lawsuit investigation
found jail officers shut off the water to keep himself after he flooded it and then failed to
ensure he received adequate water on the night he died staff didn't check on him for hours to
jail officers were later charged with falsifying logbooks which makes what happened next after
the TV cameras went away and the lawsuit said old all the more remarkable they are good with
either hand on a recent spring morning Farris greeted jose Rihanna's took over as chief of the
island County jail after keeping staff the two sat side by side at an outdoor picnic table in the
coup the Wharf recalled how they first met the time theris was in regular touch with the then
share with polls go bang the drum pretty hard and in here the Sheriff invited fair us to meet
Rihanna she came from the state prison system where he ran a special unit for inmates with
severe mental illness the biggest thing for me is an issue realized who better to be in touch with
them the guy who's taking over to just say you know Hey what can be done instead of keeping
ferrets at arm's length Rihanna's invited him and littleit he gave fair us a tour of the jail showed
the changes he was already making and took him to see the isolation cell where he died you
have to be transparent I have to say Yeah this is where Earth our faults are in these are issues
we face and we want to get their after the tour of the jail fairest wrote on Facebook we were
impressed with those saying you feel He was a good choice to this day fairest doesn't think
there was enough individual accountability for Kim's death but he trusts pre-eminence we like it
to the same place that place is safe jail where inmates with mental illness are properly care for
since pre honest took over many changes it made to how this jail operates so this cell Ray.
KNDO (NBC)
Jan 18 • 11:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_70

spokane police are searching for 46-year-old Andrew by-tel who is accused of beating his
girlfriend early this morning before running away. the victim told police beitel came into her
home, tied her up and began beating her with a baseball bat. after he left...she used her
amazon alexa to call for help. but when officers arrived, beitel was long gone. police took the
victim to the hospital and she was treated for serious but non-life threatening injuries. officers
say there is evidence that beitel is suicidal and could potentially be dangerous to the public.
police say beitel is driving a red or maroon mitsubishi outlander with washington plate number

101

bmz-58-59. if you see him or know where he is, you're asked to call 9-1-1 immediately. do not
approach him.
KHQ (NBC)
Jan 18 • 6:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_71

tonight... spokane police are searching for 46-year-old andrew by-tel who is accused of beating
his girlfriend early this morning before fleeing. according to spokane police... by-tel tied up and
assaulted his girlfriend with a baseball bat inside a home near manito park. police say after bytel fled, the victim used her amazon alexa to call for help. when officers arrived, they helped untie the victim who was later transported to the hospital and treated for serious, but non- life
threatening injuries. spokane police say beitel is possibly suicidal and presents an "extreme risk
to anyone who comes across him. according to police..beitel is driving a red or maroon
mitsubishi outlander with washington plate number bmz-58-59. if you see him or know where
he is, you're asked to call 9-1-1 immediately. do not approach him.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jan 19 • 11:10 AM

B_JAN_WASH_72

ursula whiteside is a clinical psychologist and researcher at the university of washington school
of medicine who says motto's research was indeed a breakthrough and yet. >> i feel like in
some ways people didn't notice. >> if it's this significant, why. >> it's probably a lotta reasons.
one being, like, the stigma around mental health, how small the field was at the time. and i also
think that he didn't go out and push his message. although i really wish that he had. >> suicide
rates in this country have now hit their highest levels since world war ii. the centers for disease
control, report there are now twice as many suicides as homicides that's despite the tens of
millions of dollars being spent for prevention. >> this is totally different. it's the cost of the
stamps and the cost of the card. this is radical if you think about it in comparison to what we've
been doing. >> for almost two decades now, whiteside has been sending versions of the motto
letter out i've had previous therapy and counseling experiences, but it felt a little stale. >> and
in all those years, nobody had ever tried this with you? >> no. no. it was make your
appointment, show up, see ya next time. there was no in-between. >> instead of sending caring
letters through the mail though whiteside sent lucas caring text messages. >> she's tellin' me
what she's been doing, and i write back, "you're on fire," and send an image of a woman
blowing fire! shannon, classic ursula. >> not to take anything away from your texts, but they
weren't these big deep thoughts right? >> no, they were warm and engaging and comforting
and sincere. instead of just staying in the same mode of being cut off and shutting down
through her messages i was able to connect with someone. >> well, loneliness is killing us. why
would be reaching out to the person who's disappeared off facebook or maybe the friend who
just isn't acting themselves. >> dr. motto died in 2015 at the age of 93, long enough to see a
few other people picking up on his long forgotten idea. the cdc, for example, now recommends
caring contacts, and healthcare professionals all across the country also send out colorful
postcards with positive messages to those at risk for suicide. remember kevin hines? >> the
caring letters that jerry motto created >> he now travels the country talking about suicide
102

prevention and the role of caring letters. he knows first-hand of their power, because he got
one himself. >> it wasn't about my mental illness. it was telling me that i'm a good person and
that i matter. >> how can that have that big a difference, that big an impact? >> oh my god.
showing you care about someone, not saying it, showing it is tangible. when it's tangible, it
means more. so the one thing that we know does work, we better be using."
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jan 19 • 7:17 AM

B_JAN_WASH_73

people's faces easy the despair and depression that disappear with on display for the world to
its feet earlier this month when Mexican asylum seeker killed himself on an international bridge
about 16 miles away and he had just been denied entry into the U.S. according to Mexican
investigators it says she's heard from a lot of migrants were struggling the call me at midnight
to 3 in the morning and announced on the phone with them for hours just trying to calm the
situation down and there is no psychological toll there says there's nobody here that helps sees
the world and that aspects of U.S. officials say they're working with Mexico to improve services
for the migrants but aid groups saying there is little to no mental health care for asylum seekers
up and down the border in much more both immigrant advocates are trying to get mental
health experts to come to the encampment Arianna Sawyer with human rights watch has
visited the town and others like it we're talking about people who've expressed to me that
they're experiencing anxiety depression nightmares night terrors things like that and especially
if things for children these are going to be long lasting problems and traumas that they're going
to have to deal with the Trump administration has made many changes to the asylum system
making it extremely difficult to get protection here and why They wait for their day in U.S.
immigration court the migrants are forced to wait and mexico the administration says the new
system is more efficient but Sawyers said the administration had another this pause seeing it
was designed to traumatize asylum seekers further to the point where they become willing to
give up on their asylum claims and it is doing just that but better the one thought it's fled
violence in the U.S. with his two boys he says he's not giving up on this island claimed just yet
but he did get so desperate that he's sentenced to send across the border by themselves one
obvious you know the only way they'll be allowed n the U.S. doesn't turn away the company
children humanely don't 5 be no fun being on it tell me dad no God no way they say please
don't don't let us go please dad we love you and tell them it's going to be battling for votes in
the he says that time there was no food for his kids at the cap he also said his boys had trouble
sleeping and cry all the time unsullied says he too is great every night since he sent his children
across the bridge with than 1000 women booking fees could have been maimed I gotten into
tough mental had spaces where gotten Fox about not wanting to live anymore our eat because
I can't be sent back to my country and I know what awaits me if I return but I ask God to give
me strength when all this won't see his son's any time soon the neck the silent hearing next
month for and cured youth are they now though the U.S. junior and not the autos and if you or
someone you know may be considering suicide please contact the National suicide Prevention
lifeline.
FM News 101 KXL

B_JAN_OREG_106

103

Jan 19 • 6:00 PM
sad news for the state two police officers were killed when a gunman opened fire on hold Lou
Lou they were responding to an assault call kg NDTV reporter kass attacker says the gunman
also dead in much of the neighborhood burned apparently because feast under fire it's unclear
whether he took his life whether police took a mile we did hear a lot of gunfire this is a man
who not only fired on those two officers but the fire sporadically Over a good stretch possibly
half an hour or more firing people were coming to the House began as the standoff situation
and it appeared he was not coming out peacefully SWAT teams went in we heard what what we
think or flash grenades intended to stun him we heard a lot of police fire as well with their
automatic weapons.
Fox Sports Radio 620
Jan 19 • 11:40 AM

B_JAN_OREG_107

… any responsibility of the new england Patriots all this something else certainly they employed
him and like you said I mean this is a guy who you had private investigators following around
pre-draft there could have been some indications that he was either not guilty because he can't
say someone's guilty if they're not even charged but he was Associated with either people who
have committed crimes or he himself may have Committed crimes have been necessary to
crime serious crimes like murder drive by shootings so when that comes up others there's no
doubt there's some responsibility there but you are in luck I mean you can make any serve
accusation you want if the new england Patriots I thought that he was capable of what the
state of of Massachusetts found him to be capable of there's no way they would have drafted
will ask you this what I mean you were there Yeah didn't have a lot of interaction with his
teammates did your best ran his that he hung out with be on the practice field be on the
football field not teammates not that I know of look into building this is going to sound very
strange and again this is not separating Aaron Hernandez the person from the murder like you
there one in the same he's a bad guy our was right is it is that passed since areas committed
suicide in prison but Aaron Hernandez on a daily bases was a charming could ve Veal person
who I am it look bella check was hard line guy he was difficult to be in the building where he
made everybody feel like you walk on egg shells but when Aaron slipped up like I remember
one time he missed a meeting like you overslept is alarming he came into the building and who
knows what he was doing the night before I made him over sleep right arm right thing he
knocked out a couple of that night but he was he was so charming that I he got away with that
kind of humor with this story that when he got the new contract he what to pray is the only
thing Bob kraft right any even donated money to one of the E Myra kraft found my workout my
aircraft Foundation not look this guy I'm telling you he he was in and and this is a part of the I
mean the he was a psychopath Yes when we play soccer win win you are living a dual life you
have to be you have to be able to fool everybody right on one side of the coin and then be a
capable of committing heinous crimes on the other side of the coin that was Aaron Hernandez
because on a daily basis he was a guy who almost like the spark conversation with Hey what's
gone comment you use a condom go on I just an are happy goofy guy but then at night or you
know in the offseason whenever he was up to these awful attacks he would he had no problem
104

taking lives and that's the reason why I ended up in prison though now the bottom line is we're
never going to know the whole story because he's gone the only one to have the whole story
was him and he's gone so on we can speculate about everything else that makes a very
interesting theater but whatever room really was going on and had of Aaron Hernandez went
down when he Committed Suicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Jan 20 • 11:39 PM

B_JAN_OREG_108

they're always the serving him and keep up that he had been on a police horse that somebody
and I thought so I wear email arrested while it may come back to hurt I am awake so anyway it
what we're thinking of putting the pieces together is he died the marker protecting us because
when my son my younger son came home that I laid my older son don't go and grab his gun
was in his bed and said I could kill you you don't need it took a broker in York he had trouble
sleeping there's nights where did they just couldn't sleep and he was taking medication that
they take and schools to stay open I study and I think it was a cataclysmic collision of all the
beef you know events taking place and it just came to an end on that day eat turnout response
so there's a way to get Ahold of them or anything all that day he was to turn and very
determined group so sorry you know that this weighs on you and your family Vick and the
people when they participate in the act of suicide it sometimes to relieve the pain and passing
on that pane everyone else who lives and I know that that is a heavy burden the there are now
about the few college part of the so Here's the dilemma I have some as you'd told the story of
who wore her son's struggle mome and that he had done some research about the theological
ramifications a of the act of suicide a you said that he some studies that he did probably gave
him the okay to do it you're so you can understand my dilemma that when it comes to the
theology behind this is my concern is giving the field of corn and Sir that somebody would hear
her as a green light to do that so I will say that the act of suicide itself murder murders he can
be forgetful and the assumption has Suicide could be for different the concern there
theologically is that one can repent from the murder but she can't apparent suicide because
you've cut off all options it right having said that guy is not down to the time continuum and
into as it says and scriptures days as a 1000 years in 1000 years is that as the day but it there is
a moment's in the process a one and leaving their body that certainly there can be a connection
with God and the point was turning away from the weights or understanding and therefore no
one knows the but there's no reason to believe that it's an automatic sentence to help although
there are some in and people of faith to believe that it is not that is not the stance of this
program so I will say that although I believe that it can be for given the weight of it is measured
upon the individual case in this case it might truly be a mental disorder that showed itself
Indiana in which he's he's not capable of processing and what he's doing or the wake of what
he's doing because of paranoia because of delusions and things were going on so I believe that
too I believe that you know he would have kindness she otherwise it's because we're good
we're just a or person a loving family notice we are just always there for each other it's just
hard to imagine that and it's easier to imagine that there were problems to turn

105

KXLY (ABC)
Jan 20 • 6:05 PM

B_JAN_WASH_74

the man who tied up his girlfiend and beat her with a baseball bat over the weekend has been
found dead... the body of 46-year-old andrew beitel was discovered in stevens county just two
days after he assaulted his girlfriend. the spokane police department says that woman was
taken to the hospital saturday morning with serious but non- life-threatening injuries... she
used her amazon 'alexa' device to call 9-1-1. officers arrived at her home in the 2-thousand
block of grand, near manito park and freed her. it was believed beitel was suicidal and officers
warned anyone who saw him ánotá to make contact.
KOBI
Jan 21 • 6:00 PM

B_JAN_OREG_109

one man is dead after being shot in the chest with a rifle... just south of dorris. but police aren't
quite sure exactly how it happened. the siskiyou county sheriff's office responded to the
incident last friday. nbc5's anna weeks spoke with the sheriff... about this puzzling case - anna?
craig... kristin... police say there isn't any evidence of foul play or a suicide attempt... and he
may have fallen. but we do know 31-year-old dakota woodard was found after being shot in the
chest. when first responders arrived... woodard was critically injured, but conscious. first
responders tried to revive him... but he died before crews got him to the hospital. investigators
found a rifle and one empty casing nearby. "he fell from a hay stack while holding the rifle is
what the investigation revealed." "but we are still investigating it to eliminate all eventualities."
woodard was a local veterinarian... with 'companion animal mobile veterinary services.' the
incident is still under investigation. an autopsy will take place this week.
KHQ (NBC)
Jan 21 • 6:03 PM

B_JAN_WASH_75

we have new information on the man wanted for beating his girlfriend with a bat at a home in
north spokane. the woman managed to use an amazon echo to call for help... and the suspect...
46-year-old andrew beitel... was found dead later that night. tonight we've learned that beitel is
believed to have hung himself... from an archway over a driveway... at a home in stevens
county. the stevens county sheriff's office says that based on footprints in the snow... it appears
beitel was acting alone. right now detectives in spokane valley are asking for your help to
identify this man after a handgun was stolen from a pawn shop. the theft was reported back on
january 10th just before 10 o clock in the morning at american pawn and gun on east sprague.
the suspect is described as a white man in his late 30s, approximately 6 foot 2 between 225 and
240 pounds with brown hair and was seen driving this white pickup truck. if you have any
inofrmation your asked to call crime stoppers 1- 800-222-tips right away.

106

KXLY (ABC)
Jan 21 • 6:01 PM

B_JAN_WASH_76

we know tonight the man who tied up his girlfriend and beat her with a baseball bat killed
himself. andre beitel was found dead yesterday- north of colville. police had been searching for
him since saturday morning. that's when beitel's girlfriend used her "alexa" device to call 9-1-1
and tell police he had been beaten and left tied up in her home on grand, new manito park. the
victim was taken to the hospital and is expected to recover.
KXLY (ABC)
Jan 22 • 5:00 PM

B_JAN_WASH_77

monday, strahan testified in favor of a senate bill that would ban large capacity magazines -weapons that can hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition.if it passed in washington -inherited weapons -- or those owned before the effective date -- would be grandfathered in.
opponents argue -- the bill doesn't address the real issue --gun suicides, which make up twothirds of all gun violence deaths in the u-s.30:18 daniel mitchell (14)"so many need the help.
they need mental services, they need interdiction from school districts, from their employers -there's an awful lot of people dying from suicide and we continue to look the other
way."strahan believes --if lawmakers vote against the bill --they'll be looking away from mass
shootings -- like the one that killed sam.25:58 ami strahan (12)"if you have children of your
own, if you have grandchildren, nieces, nephews or anyone you would be lost without, you
have the opportunity to do something. i can share my story - you can create change." an
executive session on this bill is set for tomorrow morning...this is one of many controversial gun
bills on the table.
KAYU (FOX)
Jan 22 • 10:23 PM

B_JAN_WASH_78

Tonight, a new law is going into effect in Utah... making it the 19th state to ban conversion
therapy for minors. the new bill was delayed in the state legislature... when conservative
lawmakers made changes to it. when l-g-b-t-q advocates condemned the move... the republican
governor actually apologized -- and then bypassed lawmakers altogether -- implementing an
administrative rule on the issue instead. now... equality groups are praising his decision... saying
the new ruling will save lives. Williams says: "today in utah, lgbtq youth are protected from
conversion therapy. it has been quite a year leading up to this moment. our original objective
was to help the state address the issue of youth suicide. when we saw that suicide rates over
the past decade had spiked 141 percent, we wanted to do our part." a year leading up to this
moment. our original objective was to help the state address the issue of youth suicide. when
we saw that suicide rates over the past decade had spiked 141 percent, we rates over the past
decade had spiked 141 percent, we wanted to do our part." the governor's rule only applies to
kids and teens under 18. therapists or counselors who violate it... could face sanctions -- like
losing their license.

107

