B_DEC_WASH_1

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 1, 2019 • 6:26 PM
a safe haven for veterans living with p.t.s.d. chip reid takes us to Virginia where vets are forging
a new future. >> reporter: in rural virginia, an ancient trade is being molded into modern
medicine. >> it took us from where, you know, we were just scraping and then brought us to
where we are living again. >> they are like angels. >> reporter: those angels are steve hotz and
dave seitz a gulf war veteran who last year founded black horse forge. >> you can come here,
and you blow off a little bit of steam. you tell us what your problems are, we are going listen. >>
hotz had these blacksmith tools but no shop, seitz had a shed on his horse farm, but no tools.
they put it together and now teach classes to vets, active service members and first responders
who learn how to transform something old into something new. >> they go from railroad spike
prison shank to finished blade. >> reporter: while also transforming themselves. here, no topic
is too hot. after all, even tough guys have a melting point. >> it's a comfortable place to be. i
guess you could call it a safe zone. >> reporter: and that's the real tool they build together:
trust. >> ready? >> when a guy is able to lift a burden while he's here, and then he has to go
home, how far down the road does he get before the burden comes back? >> reporter: gets
you emotional even talking about it? >> yep. >> reporter: why is that? >> i think it's because we
are vested. we have seen it. >> reporter: seen it in what they call "saves." veterans
contemplating suicide who find a reason to live here. >> about three months ago, my best
friend up here tried to kill himself. literally i got his house and basically pulled the gun out of his
mouth. and they helped him out. >> reporter: hotz and seitz fuel the forge out of their own
pockets and see it as their way to keep serving. >> we literally had a bad night one day and
walked here at about 5:00 o'clock in the morning, knocked on his door and dave came right out
and just talked to us. we didn't have to fire the forge up that night. they just wanted to talk. >>
reporter: and find a way forward, with new irons in the fire. chip reid, cbs news, stafford,
virginia.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 1, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_1

the vancouver community is remembering a mother shot and killed in an elementary school
parking lot. this happened in front of her children. the woman and another adult were shot by
her estranged husband who took his own life. kandra kent is live at the vigil in esther short
park. kandra? reporter: bonnie, they're starting to light it up here. there's probably 100 people,
maybe close to 150 people here right now. you can see them behind me. the mood is pretty
somber, and we've seen tears and hugs and we're just keeping our distance right here, but you
can see them gathered there, organizers of this vigil have identified the woman as tiffany hill.
and deputies say her tragic death stems from domestic violence. they're gathering here to
remember tiffany, to say a prayer, share memories and show support. organizers call tiffany a
1

shining star taken from us much too soon. tiffany leaves behind three children according to a
gofundme and all three of the children were in a van at sarah j. anderson elementary school
when keland hill fired through the window. tiffany hill didn't make it and another adult was
taken to the hospital and expected to survive. all three children escaped without injury. keland
hill led deputies on a short chase before he shot and killed himself a few miles from the school.
deputies say the victim had taken out a restraining order against keland hill, and court records
show he had a troubled past including attempted murder charges dropped in north carolina.
the restraining order was granted in october and keland hill got out of jail after he was arrested
for stalking. organizers here say tiffany was a veteran and so far nearly $80,000 has been raised
for her children through a gofundme. of course, we are working to learn more details from the
sheriff's office, but we'll keep you posted on the latest developments. live in vancouver, kandra
kent, fox 12 oregon.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 1, 2019 • 5:26 PM

B_DEC_OREG_2

we've got the latest on the investigation into the shootings. when a celebrity dies by suicide,
research has shown there is often an increase ensure these potentially lifesaving guidelines are
being implemented every time the tragic celebrity death by suicide has the potential to give
others in crisis life-saving tools and a better understanding of the role mental health plays in
them online." :05 "media can have a big role in not only preventing contagion but actually
encouraging prevention activities, coping and making sure that individuals newspaper articles
that covered the suicides of followed just half of the fourteen reporting guidelines developed
by journalism organizations and mental health experts to help advise members of the media on
what they should and shouldn't include when reporting on suicide.. :22 "following the
guidelines can actually truly make a difference and can actually decrease the likelihood of
someone taking their own conveyed a hopeful message about how suicide can be prevented.
none of them the likelihood of suicide occurring." :15 the guidelines are easily accessed online,
and experts also encourage journalists to consult others in the newsroom familiar with the we
have a much better shot at being successful." :07 while there is work to be done, parents can
help by talking to their kids about mental health when this approach and try to learn more
about what that young person is experiencing." :07 ------------------ anchor tag experts say this
conversation should start early and often, and not just in times of tragedy or crisis. :06 "if we
just have one conversation, that might potentially lead to barb consiglio reporting.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Dec 1, 2019 • 4:17 PM

B_DEC_WASH_2

these cleats provide resources and aid for those affected by suicide. i'm solomon thomas and
i'm playing for the american foundation for suicide preventionion. >>> junior seau, a 12-time
pro bowler. >> he reminds me of ray. had he that same kind of passion every day, every minute.
football was fun for junior seau. it was work but it was fun. all-time leading tackler in the history
of football. break just one tackle? >> no, sir! >> everybody loved junior and junior loved
everybody. when he stepped on the field, he was just one of those guys that just had an energy
2

and had a vigor for the game that was truly unique and special and it was contagious. he was a
great teammate. >> junior seau is named part of the front seven on the nfl all-time season. the
celebration continues on friday night on nfl network. defensive backs and special teamers.
rodney, nobody to taupe about junior seau than you. a teammate 12 years and including your
first nine in the league as a charger. >> he taught me to be a pro and hardest working player
i've ever been around and he would drive me crazy. we would be in one coverage and junior
would be anywhere he wanted to be. >> how about us trying to play against him? let me show
you what i'm talking about here. junior seau here. we knew where he lined up but no idea
where he was going to go. >> it drove me crazy for 12 years. he might be here or might even
take over at free safety. >> he hits a gap. wow. that is what he had. the ability to slice and get at
the quarterback. >> tremendous instincts. great work ethic. he wanted to get after the
quarterback. >> and that is classic junior right there. >> how many times did you see that
reaction? >> thousands of times. >> a great player. >> i miss him. >> he took his life seven years
ago. he is part of that 100-anniversary season team, junior seau.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 1, 2019 • 11:06 PM

B_DEC_OREG_3

five days after investigators say a mother was murdered in a school parking lot in front of her
children friends and family are remembering and honoring the woman in a candlelight vigil in
vancouver. >>reporter: the focus of tonight was on tiffany hill. who she was and how she lived
and how much she was loved by the community. it was also a chance to bring awareness to
domestic violence and how to spell foz it. >> she was a dear friend. >> she may have died by
domestic violence but that is not how she is being remembered. >> we will continue to provide
for her children. >> she was a committed and honored marine. the pride she had in her country
and fellow fellow service women and men was immense. >> she was so giving. so generous. >>
dozens of memories and dozens of candles and tears of pain. at this crowd united by shared
love for the 35-year-old mother of three from new york. there was a stories of her incredible
baking skills and volunteer work at her children's schools. her family says that she only moved
to washington state three years ago. her mother was in vancouver visiting her daughter when
tiffany was shot. >> that was my daughter. that was my best friend. that was my princess. i tried
to save my baby. i came home here to bring her home with me and the kids. i knew something
was going on. >> deputies say her estranged husband pulled the trigger in a murder suicide. it
would be the final devastating act after what authorities called years of domestic violence. only
months after tiffany was granted a restraining order against her husband. >> our promise is to
move forward and change the broken system we have that could not protect you. >> a vow to
remember remember tiffany for how she lived and to fight for her and her memory. >> your
strength will guide us and help us heal and your star will shine on forever. >> more than
$80,000 has been raised in a go fund me for tiffany's children. if you are someone you know is a
victim of domestic violence there are resources to help. kt pv .com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 1, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_4

3

katherine: a vancouver mother who was shot and killed is being remembered tonight amount
of vigil was held for tiffany hill. authorities say hill's estranged husband shot and killed her while
their three kids were in the car. her kids were not hurt. the mother did have a restraining order
against her husband. deputies say he shot and killed himself after a short police chase
Fox 12 Plus
B_DEC_OREG_5
Dec 1, 2019 • 9:05 PM
the vancouver community is coming together tonight to remember a mother shot and killed in
an elementary school parking lot -- in front of her children another adult were shot last week by
her estranged husbandwho then took his own life after leading deputies on a short chase. fox
12's kandra kent shows us how loved ones honored the victim tonight. organizers of this vigil
have identified the woman as tiffany hill ??(double check) deputies say her tragic death stems
from domestic violence. the event here at esther short park is a gathering to remember tiffany
to say a prayer, share memories and show support organizers call tiffany a "shining star taken
from us much too soon." tiffany leaves behind three children and deputies say all of them were
in a van at sarah j anderson elementary school tuesday afternoon --- when 38-year-old keland
hill fired several rounds through the windshield and driver's window. tiffany hill didn't make it
and another adult in the car was taken to the hospital but is expected to surviveall three
children escaped without physical injury.keland hill then led deputies on a short chase, before
he shot and killed himself a few miles from the school at the intersection of andresen and
padden parkway. deputies say the victim had taken out a restraining order against keland
hillcourt records show keland had a troubled past with domestic violence involving tiffany
including attempted murder charges that were dropped in north carolina. the restraining order
was granted in October and keland hill only recently got out of jail after he was arrested for
stalking. family says tiffany was a veteran so far nearly 80- thousand dollars has been raised
through go fund me to help her children.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 1, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_6

you know an amazing soul she was. >>> the crowd formed in a vancouver park to remember
the life of tiffany hill. tiffany was a victim of domestic violence. sister says, it was tiffany's
husband, he until shot and killed her, then entered her mother, before killing himself. she died
last week in the parking lot of sarah j anderson elementary. tonight was about how tiffany left.
she had a huge impact on the people around here. >> reporter: person after person spoke at
tonight's vigil made it clear, she touched the lives of so many people. she's remembered at a
loving mother, sister, friend and veteran. >> reporter: does is made up of the partition
memories and grief at the loss of 35-year- old tiffany hill. >> there's not enough time in the days
and weeks in your what a wonderful human being she was. >> she would come and talk to you
and give you good advice and support. she was so supportive. >> she was a fierce force to be
reckoned with.'s >> reporter: she burned every room she walked into. she was summering
veteran and a mother 23. dealing with something not everyone know about. >> i did not know
these things were going on. she never mentioned anything. it is seven. it is haar. >> reporter:
family says tiffany was the victim of ongoing domestic violence. clark county sheriff office that
4

tiffany had a restraining order against her husband, who had recently bailed out of jail. last
tuesday. tiffany's sister says it was her husband who shot and killed her and injured her mother.
they sat in his car in the parking lot of sarah j anderson elementary in vancouver. two of
tiffany's kids were in the car. they were not physically hurt after leading deputies on a brief
chase, he shot and killed himself. to vendors, tiffany's mother came to spell. she came to visit
because she knew something wasn't right. >> i tried to say my baby. i came home. here to make
a home with me and the kids. i knew something was wrong and going on. >> reporter: her
friends want to help save other victims of domestic violence. they promise the crowd that
would help change the system that could not protect her no other family has to feel this kind of
loss. >> everybody who knows the love of my daughter, loves madonna. that was my best
friend. >>> the family works to help, they are working to take care of tiffany skits. they started a
gofundme that at last check is race more than $79,000. a link to that on https://www.kgw.com/
if you want to donate.
Portland's CW
Dec 1, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_7

to know tiffany is to know that she considered you family, so to know tiffany is to know that
you really had family. emily: family and friends gathered to remember tiffany hill at a vigil in
vancouver tonight. the mother of three was shot and killed by her estranged husband in the
parking lot of an elementary school. you are watching koin 6 news at 10:00. i'm emily burris.
koin 6's jennifer dowling is live in vancouver. she was at tonight's vigil. i understand some of her
family was there? how are they doing? jennifer: and has been a really tough time for the family,
as you can imagine. we are standing in the parking lot of the elementary school where keeland
hill's accused of opening fire and killing tiffany hill, and injuring her mom. her mom has a long
road to recovery ahead of her. but although she was injured, she wanted to be there to support
her daughter tonight. >> thank you. thank you. thank you. amen. praise jesus. jennifer:
bandaged with her arm in a sling, tiffany's mom spoke to hundreds who gathered to remember
her daughter, tiffany hill. >> with all these things happening to the women and children that is
not fair, give them support and love and help them. jennifer: tiffany's mom didn't want her
name used for privacy reasons, but told the crowd her strength comes from the lord, saying
only he is holding me together. she was my daughter, my good, good baby. she also asked the
community to support all the family members impacted by the tragedy. >> i want everybody to
know that my beautiful sister -- that's my other daughter -- people need to know that people
see the tragedy. yes, there was a big tragedy, but she's also in pain. she also had someone to
love, that loved her. she didn't know all these other things. jennifer: tiffany's sister, tabitha
ojeda, who lives in new york, says she was a military veteran. friends say that service was
important to tiffany. >> she was very humble about it. she served in the military and she was
very proud of it. jennifer: her friend heather says she and tiffany met when their children were
in a grow and learn program together. >> she was always talking about her kids and always
trying to do what she thought was best for her kids. jennifer: tiffany had six siblings. one of her
sisters, who didn't want her name used, told the crowd tiffany was a godmother to her
youngest. >> she touched so many lives in so many places, all across the united states. jennifer:
sister tabitha says the children will join family in new york. >> all she did was live for her
5

children, for all three of them. and we will continue to do that. jennifer: detectives say that hill
turned the gun on himself after leading police on a chase and killed himself. we spoke to
tiffany's dad off-camera. he tells us he is trying not to have any hate in his heart. he says at one
time, he was like a son to him, and that makes this case all the more shocking. emily: you really
feel for everything this family is going through, and you think about those kids.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 2, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_8

a former softball coach is facing serious charges. washington county deputies arrested 22-yearold madison soper following a raid near banks. among the charges were child sex abuse and online sexual corruption of a minor. they started investigating soper after receiving a tip. they are
concerned there might be more victims. she was a volunteer softball coach at banks high school
a man that killed a mother and child ren was sentence today. the crash in october killed the 25year-old woman, her three children and young niece. garcia's blood alcohol level was four times
the legal limit. >>> there was a deadly shooter in the parking lot. she was killed outside sarah j.
elementary. the gunman later shot and killed himself. >>> students are back in class after a
noro virus out break. crews have been sanitizing if buildings. they are asked to stay home two
days after the symptoms stop. >>> there was an on-line purchase that went wrong. two men
were robbed at gunpoint. the victim was meeting the men to buy a cell phone from a post on
offer up. they got away with hundreds of crash and no one was hurt.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 2, 2019 • 4:04 PM

B_DEC_WASH_3

police say the driver who hit for pedestrians, killing two of them told officers she crashed
intentionally, even had her eyes closed as she sped up. allison grundy is live at the king county
jail. officers think she was under the influence of methamphetamine. >> reporter: they are still
waiting for the result of her blood test to figure out what she was on. she is facing two counts
of nuclear homicide. the judge who said her bail at half $1 million. >> ms. king is present in my
it right. >> battling king walked into court wearing a suicide prevention sock. the 23-year-old
has been on suicide watch since she was booked into the king county jail friday. detectives
believe king was under the influence of drugs when she crashed her car into for pedestrians
along avenue. she told them she did it intentionally and had her eyes closed as she lost control,
turning from aurora avenue onto 9. from chopper seven, you can see the wreckage is horrific. it
is even worse to understand the victims were unprotected, just walking on the sidewalk when
they were hit. >> i heard the noise, i just heard a loud impact. >> one person died at the scene,
three more were injured. another victim died from his injuries on saturday. instead of with
waiting for police, witnesses say king ran. >> she just hit them people. >> amaro was on a metro
bus and chased her down. >> i chased her up the hill. >> reporter: court documents say king
was carrying a bush with her to hide behind as she tried to get away. today, her parents and
other relatives came to court to show their support. they did not want to talk to us in the
hallway. they held each other as they walked away. we watched as king's parents walked up the
stairs here at the jail, likely to try to visit their daughter. she doesn't have a criminal record. i
6

talked to the hospital. one of the surviving austrians is in satisfactory condition, the other was
released over the weekend. expect charges to be filed against king tomorrow.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 2, 2019 • 6:35 AM

B_DEC_OREG_9

Vancouver Park was filled with friends and family are remembering a victim of domestic
violence who was gunned down by her estranged husband K excels Rosemary about a test
more Tiffany Hill died in the parking lot of anderson elementary school last week the
community wanted to pay their respects said Esther short par with the vigil there's under
power in the days weeks and years to do one or cure she once serious talk to you and get you
and I know was a Marine Corps veteran and a mother of 3 the Clark County sheriff's office tells
his partner KGW tiffany had a restraining order against her husband Keith Lind Hill who recently
bailed out of jail after leading deputies on a brief Chase he shot and killed himself a GoFundMe
page has been set up to help the couple's 3 children nearly 81000 $ has been raised so far rose
very reynolds fn news one no one read more now I K XL Dotcom it's been more than two weeks
since a man from Sandy was last seen or heard from the family of Martin Welles who _sixty_
_eight_ says he could be suffering from mental health crisis police sand they're asking for any
tips Wells has been missing since November 13th.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 2, 2019 • 4:44 PM

B_DEC_OREG_10

for miles to share one very important message to their fellow service members. greg payne has
their message. they move silently, but their message is loud and clear, adam peacock: a lot of
us the war doesnt stop when we leave its what chris landis calls the war at difficult fight that is
often lost. on average about 22 veterans commit suicide each day, --nats-- chris landis: i've lost
multiple friends to the war at home and i was almost a victim myself, which is the reason chris
landis started the 22 for 22 hike, a 22 mile journey, for those whove lost that fight, and those
continuing to fight it, adam peacock: you remember who you fought next to who the left and
right were the names the faces, its also a challenge of endurance for these veterans, --nats-and even when their tired legs thought it was over, --nats-- the most important part, and the
journeys hidden message came to light, --nats-- a test of their willingness to overcome, as a unit
and as a family, --nats-- and those are the key components to winning the main battle, the war
at home.

7

KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 2, 2019 • 6:03 AM

B_DEC_OREG_11

tiffany hill was remembered today after her husband shot and killed her then injured her
mother before injuring himself last week. at the vigil where tiffany was remembered as a loving
mother, sister, friend and u.s. military veteran. >>reporter: doesn't smell up in a Vancouver
park to share memories and grief at the loss of 35-year-old tiffany ojeda- hill . >> there's not
enough power in the day or weeks in a year to convey what a wonderful human being she was .
>> should always come and talk to you and give you advice and support, she was so supportive.
>> she was a fierce force to be reckoned with expect friends and family say tiffany brightened
every room she walked into, she was a marine corps veteran and mother to three but was also
dealing with something that everyone knew about . >> i didn't know a lot of these things were
growing on that she never mentioned anything so, it's really kind of sudden and it's hard . >>
family says tiffany was the victim of ongoing domestic violence. the clark county sheriff's office
said tiffany had a restraining order against her husband, keland hill who had recently bailed out
of jail. last tuesday, tiffany sister says it was her husband who shot and killed her and injured
her mother as they sat in this car in the parking lot of sarah jay henderson elementary in
vancouver. two of tiffany's kids were also in the car. they were not physically hurt. after leading
deputies on a brief chase, keland hill shot and killed himself. tiffany's mother spoke at tonight's
vigil saying she came to visit because she knew something wasn't right . >> i tried to save my
baby, i came home, here, to make a home with me and the kids and i knew something was
wrong and going on . >> now her friends want to help save other victims of domestic violence
and promised to help change the system that could not protect or some other family has to feel
this kind of loss >> that was my daughter. That was my best friend. lindsay nadrich, kgw news.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 2, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_12

emily: people gathered in vancouver this weekend for a woman shot and killed by her
estranged husband last week. many people came out to remember tiffany hill. her mother, also
shot in the parking lot of anderson elementary school last week, was was able -- was able to
attend. clark county deputies are continuing to investigate, but they tell us the shooter keland
hill was facing charges in washington county for trying to buy a gun. he was denied because of
his criminal history, and restraining order. deputies say hill shot and killed himself after last
week's shooting.
Portland's CW
Dec 2, 2019 • 9:50 AM

B_DEC_OREG_13

We turn now to shocking news out of new jersey. the ex-boyfriend of missing any daphne parr's
has killed himself in his apartment. he was named a person of interest in her disappearance but
was not charged with a crime before his death. he was arrested in early november on unrelated
charges of child pornography. stephanie has been missing since october 30th. out in california
james van der beek's wife kimberly has spent revealing more details about how her recent
8

miscarriage almost killed her. this is such a tragic story. caitlyn becker is with us now with more.
>> it really is. my heart continues to go out to james and kimberly and their five kids. kimberly
took to instagram to thank everyone for their love and support and also revealed some details
of what happened. >> in 48 hours we lost our baby boy. i almost lost my life which is not a story
that has been told. >> kimberly also said she has been healing and getting a lot of "blood
transfusion action" because of how light-headed she's been all week.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 2, 2019 • 10:41 AM

B_DEC_OREG_14

good morning, everyone. there is extra security at a vancouver elementary school today
following a deadly shooting in the parking lot. there are also counselors on hand. last tuesday a
man shot and killed his estranged wife outside sarah j. anderson elementary as she was picking
up her children. the gunman later shot and killed himself.
AM 860
Dec 2, 2019 • 2:20 PM

B_DEC_OREG_15

let me ask you about something else which is very much on the minds of many conservatives I
was talking to a prominent conservative the other day who is 100% convinced that jeffrey
abstained did not die at his own and freight I do have a sense of that I don't know for sure I
know one thing that is he should never have been allowed to be in this alone with that video
cameras with a cellmate after he tried to allegedly tried to commit suicide earlier and I think
you look Michael biden is a terrific forensic pathologist I defend my we've had cases in the
same album and he concluded that it was not a suicide but I don't know how anybody could
have gotten into the prison in this prison I know the prison admitted many times not there's
any upstream division other people I can't imagine how anybody could have snuck in and and
arranged for his death it's certainly possible and I think this should be a thorough thorough
investigation but also investigation about how he was allowed to commit suicide I mean there's
so many possibilities that just possibilities one could pay off people to allow him to kill himself
the other somebody could pay somebody else in the prison system to do events and but
remember he was he missed he lived his life pleasures and the idea he would be spending the
rest of the behind bars this is probably something good there agreed that 66 thing you know for
him good years I can't imagine anybody getting pleasure what he's alleged to have done but
that he was going and I think that's the most plausible explanation but I wouldn't exclude any of
the others I think they should be fully investigated times main challengers would he is the
author of guilt by accusation.
KLSR (FOX)
Dec 3, 2019 • 7:32 AM

B_DEC_OREG_16

investigators are turning their attention to a gun allegedly used by a husband to kill his wife in
vancouver. deputies say a restraining order blocked him from having a gun, but that gun was
registered to someone outside of the area. lashay wesley reports. >>reporter: investigators are
9

working to find out how keelan hill was able to get the gun he used to kill his wife, tiffany.
deputies say because of an active restraining order he wasn't allowed to purchase or own a
firearm. >> one of the reasons that we are tracing down where he got the gun is the person
could face charges in this state or possible federal charges or other charges for providing -knowingly providing in this situation. >>reporter: investigators say tiffany hill was shot in front
of her three children, keelan hill killed himself after a short pursuit. prosecutors tell me they
were working to protect tiffany. >> we saw where this was going, and we saw where it was
headed. >>reporter: luke vatos ovich is with the domestic violence protection center.
investigators tell us in october keelan hill tried to purchase a gun in multnomah county. he says
that could have landed him in jail. >> there was potential for his attempt to purchase one to be
charged as an attempted unlawful possession of a firearm because he took a substantial step
towards committing the crime of possessing a firearm when he was banned from doing so.
>>reporter: tiffany gave a chilling account in court documents. >> i'm so scared for my life and
my kids' lives. >>reporter: earlier this month when keelan hill was in jail for assaulting his wife,
prosecutors attempted to keep him in custody. prosecutors requested his bail to be set at $2
million. it was finally set at $250,000 which allowed him to bail out. >> we were afraid for her
life. based on the legality assessment, based on him tracking her, based on him going to
purchase a firearm, based on the history, there were just so many red flags to us. >> well, that
was la shay wesley reporting. prosecutors say that keelan hill was due in court again the week
of the shooting.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 3, 2019 • 9:41 PM

B_DEC_OREG_17

a recent investigation from the Philadelphia Inquirer found that nearly half of the train
engineers United States and operated the train that's killed someone meaning they've seen
death on the tracks making suicide or accidents we're any number of deadly incidents the train
engineers involved in deaths on the tracks say they struggle to handle the PTSD nightmares and
anxiety that follow in Philadelphia they're often expected to return to work just 3 days later
some say they choose not to go back and all to learn more about the inquires investigation I
spoke with jason lockland he's a reporter for the Philadelphia Inquirer who code reported the
story this is a really difficult thing for people not professional it's it's Is surprisingly common
estimates are that boat almost half of engineers had a fatality young tracks one point or
another church in busy areas like Philadelphia and Metropolitan areas that number at closer to
60% and it does affect them though people we profiled talked to a number of engineers and
subway operators who have experience and they talked about a bigger upset about it and
having real recovery process they had to go through to come to terms with the experience why
do these deaths happening on the train tracks but as far as why people are doing it that's a
tough question nobody has 8 clear-cut answer but I'm what Generali appears to be the case
with suicide as people up Unfortunately use what's at hand so if you're in an urban area subway
platform worry train track is is available there seemed to be a correlation between people who
live near error tracks people chose to to commit suicide that way so it's unfortunate matter
opportunity that seems to play roles what happens to train conductors or engineers if they
happen to be in a train that ends up killing someone was that the men told affect the House
10

someone the symptoms can be somewhat PTSD and some of them actually do develop PTSD
the baby go through anxiety some face depression trouble sleeping nightmares number of
people I talk to is cust ruminating on the event the kind of thinking about it and think about the
person who they hit whether it was a suicide or not it really weighs heavily on them jason is this
more pronounced in Philly than it is around the country it depends on the mode her Um Re to
move deaths her my goal on a subway is is the highest in the car country I'm a little different for
railroads we don't have nearly as extensive subway system as new York city does so it said the
the rate is higher than in new York city now it why is that I mean is it that these said I need you
know you see railroad tracks Sir sadly pretty accessible at least from what I've been able to
ascertain here in new York is that is this an issue of accessibility to tracks and should tracks be
more difficult to to be able to trust pass and get access to Yeah end and this is a thing that we
spend some time looking at and it's really clear conduct that barriers on platforms to make a
difference on anybody's travel in Europe or asia and probably seen these kind of clear glass or
plastic walls the platforms have doors that aligned with the train doors open up trade arise
otherwise there's no way to get AP the tracks when you're not trained their in Hong Kong there
was a study done that found that the platform with those barriers had 60% fewer suicides so
they definitely work there really uncommon here United States in Philadelphia a they're gone
to start experimenting with them at whatever busy stations I'm in the next few years as far as I
know new York city does not have any right now Honolulu putting men in their new light rail
system part of the issue is they're very expensive I think Honolulu spending something like 28
million for 21 stations anderson technological hurdle as well that American of rain systems are
as automated ads their counterparts in other countries and automation helps these barry work
better as one of the things you're talking about is training staff not police but no cashiers and
engineers and conductors to recognize behavior that might indicate suicidal thoughts and just
engage with the person not an enforcement sort of way to go after them and talk to them and
see how they're doing and that has been shown to be effective in other places Sept is saying
we're going to start training People to do that next year why report on this topic jason say it's
pretty difficult topic to to look into it did you find out about this through a tip or was their data
that led you down the road you know honestly it's it's anecdotal I've covered transportation
and the Philly area for about 4 years and my colleague wrote this with dylan Purcell he and I've
done a number of projects together which and which kaine you know chat and talk of working
with bring up others another death of the railroads and they just seemed like it happened
pretty awesome they do happen more or less once a month in this area Yeah and a few years
ago we should we should look at that and what is that dude that the engineers you're kind of
helpless to watch this thing happening and dad how does that affect you it was a thing that we
talked about and finally this year we were able to connect with E the operators through the
unions and we're really lucky that so many people were willing to talk to us really shares a very
difficult story with us took to put up the public right among those stories whether any that
stood out whether any engineers that I decided to leave their jobs entirely people who decided
to I'm to keep going despite obviously what is a very traumatic experience Yeah that's the thing
a lot of people the do just stick with it and there's a lot of reasons for that one of things that
people brought up is pride you know it's a prestigious job if you're in the transportation
industry to to operate train I mean it's good money did everyone we talk to the people gone
through this said I really love my job I love doing what I do I love responsibility so people do
11

stick with it I'm for the most part but we did interview one woman who is still working for Sept
but has not operated the train since she had somebody her purse story was awful she and had
a woman younger election teenager jumped in front of the train and survived pews subway
operator and she said I want this anymore get something else to do is they assigned to the
cashier and then just a few weeks after she came back to work and started working as a cashier
she watched 8 guy he jumped the turnstile jumping from the train and sociable kind of hope
she had dodged a bullet by not you know hitting somebody and and causing a death mentioned
a witnessing one and just just after come back to work so it's it's her story it stick with him
through a sad case and lockland as a reporter at the Philadelphia enquirer piece thanks so much
thanks for having me on and if you or someone you know is in need of mental health treatment
the number for the substance abuse and Mental Health services administration the national
hotline is 100 6.2 or 3.7 6.
News Radio KEX
Dec 2, 2019 • 9:15 PM

B_DEC_OREG_18

Epstein bought into this idea and his idea along with his accomplice July Maxwell who is still
very much alive still very much larger has never been questioned by authorities they concoct
the idea of bringing in 20 young girls at the time impregnating them with Jeffrey Epstein's seed
and signing away all rights to ve progeny the baby and very going to raise on this compound
and create a whole new generation of state this is obviously a master race kindest this is big
stuff so this is a guy who is obsessed after her he's already been jailed exactly this is hope this
guy reinventing himself as a guy who's donating millions of dollars the Harvard is a guy who's
donating to M.I.T. this guy who was a college dropout who is now sitting almost as though he's
a colleague with these doctors from Harvard and science programs and they're treating him like
an equal this is a guy who's welcoming Co works like bill gates am elon Musk and Stephen
Hawking who think of him as just a harebrained but they love the fact he's got all this influence
right so he's concocting this deal when you talk about conspiracy theories this is stopped this is
a known fact this guy's going to recreate himself he wanted to have his head and his penis
cryogenically frozen so they could bring back to life one day Here's a guy obsessed with
mortality and back to your original question to commit suicide why would a man so obsessed
with mortality kill himself why would a guy who even when he was in jail most recently after his
arrest 6 months ago still be buying , Siri favors from fellow inmates Here's a guy who said after
his first quote suicide attempt he said I didn't drive committ suicide my cellmate attacked me so
we can look at all the different things between the that the video cameras being off the lapse in
time the doctor blogs with the prison guards the people who did not watch him why was left
alone in his cell is it possible that he was murdered why is a guy who who he already got off
what's going why does he get off now and if he's going to kill yourself why doesn't he just make
a phone call so my question is OK us they kill himself will there be a reason had a theory why kill
himself so he did that somebody's put so much pressure on him in essence saying we're going
to make your life a veritable held if you don't do it yourself I will scan alive kind of thing we'll
put it up bottom boiling oil you're suffering why would he just made one phone call and say I
have all the news that you want now we saw on ABC and robot she sits there on a hot Mike
moment she says I had all of the most prolific case of of pedophilia we've ever known this
12

would have been the story of the century this would have exposed more people than anything
we've ever known and the key is that steve was ready the Paulk so he killed himself what he
called the could made one phone call he's already be wants yet of how you are looking at when
when you get to suicide my feeling is that it is indeed the final in the greatest act of insanity you
mean you don't being so you can Necessarily apply to me if the guy sees his world completely
collapsing and he's convinced there's no way out there's no way out and he has some loyalty to
some of the people they were helping him.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 3, 2019 • 2:57 PM

B_DEC_OREG_19

20 times inside her locked apartment. her death was originally classified as homicide and then
changed to suicide, leaving many to question what actually happened to ellen greenberg. 27year-old ellen greenberg was a first-grade teacher in Philadelphia. she and her boyfriend had
just becoming gauged and begin planning their wedding. January 26, her school let out early
due to an oncoming blizzard. on her way home, she folded her gas tank. she was a home with
her fiance until 4:45 p.m. when he reportedly went to the gym in their apartment complex.
when he arrived back at the apartment less than an hour later, he said he found the apartment
locked from the inside. he claims he banged on the door and received no response. over the
next 22 minutes, he would try to convince her to open the door through text messages. at 6:30
3:00 p.m., her fiance says he forced open the door to find ellen dead on the floor of the kitchen,
stabbed 20 times. there was a knife still lodged in her chest. ellen was pronounced dead at 6:40
p.m. investigators ultimately stated she died by suicide. on the next true crime, her
heartbroken parents speak out on why they believe she was murdered. was her death truly a
suicide or was it murder? i will take a look at a hard evidence. i will see you next time.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 3, 2019 • 5:15 PM

B_DEC_WASH_4

Breaking news, south of the south lined trains are south right now because a pedestrian was
struck and killed intent. chapter number seven is heading to the sea -- to the scene. it comes
just hours after a 54- year-old man was hit and killed by another train this morning. the collision
happened around six this morning just south of the station. that death was ruled a suicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 2, 2019 • 11:12 AM

B_DEC_OREG_20

Jeffrey Epstein is victim's dad saying haen no wars that if he didn't kill himself Yes this is all
having to do also with Prince Andrew and also jeffrey epstein and so Virginia Roberts dad he
was gone and good morning Britain today his name is sky Roberts now he says he worked
Marlon ago and got her job there and that's win Dulaimi Maxwell the recruiter forever Steen
pick to Rob and offered a trainer as a massage therapist and mrs sky robert Yes she was excited
about it because they were going a teacher massage therapy and our son was always good to
learn every job you can Anna at that time there was nothing about have steen being a
13

pedophile or any of his dealings or what was going on with him to know now what I know now
about jeffrey of steam and Mr. Maxwell and several others said coming in I'm sure that's why
jeffrey have seen is not alive right now is because somebody didn't want see his books or
whatever he's got on everybody I know he didn't kill himself you know ahead and had to be you
know somebody from a blow.
KOHD (ABC)
Dec 3, 2019 • 6:12 AM

B_DEC_OREG_21

and we turn now to the fallout after a bombshell interview with prince andrew's accuser. >>
virginia roberts giuffre insists jeffrey epstein directed her to have sex with andrew when she
was 17 and this morning, she is slamming the prince for denying the accusations claiming he's
making ridiculous excuses. in her first tv interview with british media, virginia roberts giuffre is
taking on prince andrew. >> there's only one of us telling the truth, and i know that's me. >>
reporter: giuffre says in court filings that she was directed by jeffrey epstein to have sex with
the prince when she was 17. prince andrew denied that claim during his controversial recent
interview when he discussed his friendship with epstein, a convicted sex offender who
investigators say killed himself while awaiting trial for sex trafficking. >> but you were staying at
the house -- >> yes. >> -- of a convicted sex offender. >> it was a convenient place to stay. >>
reporter: in an interview with the bbc recorded before prince andrew's interview, giuffre
describes dancing with the prince the night of this now infamous photo. >> he is the most
hideous dancer i've ever seen in my life. i mean it was horrible and this guy was sweating all
over me. >> reporter: that claim flatly denied by the prince. >> there's a slight problem with the
sweating because i have a peculiar medical condition, which is i don't sweat or i didn't sweat at
the time. >> reporter: giuffre is blasting critics who claim the photo of them together was faked.
>> i think the world is getting sick of these ridiculous excuses. it's a real photo. i've given it to
the fbi for their investigation. and it's an authentic photo. there is a date on the back of it from
when it was printed. >> reporter: this morning, buckingham palace has not commented on
giuffre's interview as many say the prince should remain out of the spotlight. >> there's talk
that prince andrew is keen to do another interview in order to respond to the claims that miss
giuffre makes. that would be a very bad decision given how the last one went and i think
everyone is in agreement should he give any more interviews that needs to be law enforcement
authorities. >> buckingham palace says the prince regrets his association with jeffrey epstein
and denies any form of sexual contact or relationship with giuffre. the prince could face
subpoenas if he returned to the u.s.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 3, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_22

we're now getting a closer look into the background of a deadly shooting at a Vancouver
elementary school parking lot the Clark County Sheriff released a timeline of events today
leading up to the death of Tiffany held on September 11th tiffany called police after she says
her husband key until pushed into a wall he was arrested the next day she got a restraining
order as deputies released from jail on bail to and called police two more times in September as
14

key lender violated the no-contact order on October 6th you until I tried to buy a rifle at a
Walmart in oregon he was denied the purchase after a background check deputies did not
arrest him for that until November 7th he only ended up in jail because tiffany called police that
day saying she saw him in several places like was stocking here police and a GPS tracker on her
car and arrested him for stocking he bailed out of jail again on November 21st and shot and
killed the woman on the 26th in front of her 3 children he later shot and killed himself when
deputies stopped his car after the murder.
AM 860
Dec 3, 2019 • 3:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_23

veterans have difficulty getting employed so entirely the entire economy is benefiting from the
Senate is gone over to veterans not that I meet a 37% drop is nothing to sneeze at from where
they were before you were also looking at 86.5 billion $ went into the V.A. which is the highest
amount ever now I as a conservative never say money is always a solution however 8.6 billion
of that is going to mental health care and suicide Prevention 172 V.A. for abilities now have
walked in mental health care how did that not happen before we hear about veterans killing
themselves in the parking lot because it could get a point we've heard about people killing
themselves on the V8 premises because they were so disgusted in their inability to get care why
would we have had walk-in well we know that there's a high propensity for suicide among this
group I said is throwing money at it we have a darkly Wynette Yeah we have the deputy
assistant secretary for benefits the V.A. you talk about how they find him 4th foul for now be
that's tired to this has to get rid of people not to mention an illness yet over 4000 being
employees were removed suspended or demoted and what I want to put this in context this is
the second largest government bureaucracy and all D.C. in the United States 377000 employees
and you could not fire than before even share held in the head of the Phoenix V.A. after those
40 veterans died they could fire her for that even though she had been removed from every job
for doing and misconduct or in substandard performance they got around some travel claim
that apparently was not then she did was not done correctly and she had the Union helper sick
of people not being held to the same standard you and I have to go through if we don't perform
you don't do well on this this network it's over I do my job is cut you've given us know the facts
the figure is your affection you don't now the co-chair of those veterans Trump boy talk to us
about how this is a fake did the to choose to find a way to talk about the wrong when you're
out of uniform for affected overall veterans across okay so it's even bigger than that we're also
talking about forever G.I. Bill.
KOBI
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_DEC_OREG_24

oregon department of human services has released a report detailing what they say led to the
death of a medford two-year-old in august. police found aiden salcido's body in a remote area
of montana. his parents were also found that week... dead in a murder- suicide. that was after
oregon d-h-s had investigated his family. they say they closed the investigation despite concern

15

about the father's anger issues and the mother's mental health. to see the full report... visit our
website at kobi5-dot-com.
KTVL (CBS)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_25

one woman says she struggles with depression during the holidays, and she's not alone. and
police say bike thefts have more than doubled in the city of medford. >>> a local woman shares
her experience with depression during the holiday holidays. a local organization sees a rise in
support groups this time of year. >> reporter: professionals say it's easy to get wrapped up in
the holiday expectations. people need support during this time of year, especially if their
expectations are out of reach. >> the holidays get you down. finances, and then not really
having relatives. nearby. it's really hard. >> reporter: national alliance on mental illness says one
in five adults experience mental illness each year. locally, they see an increase in support
groups over the past three weeks due to the holiday season. >> adults living with mental illness
cannot be isolated from their families and friends. and this time of year is a time to really
monitor that isolation. >> reporter: she tried to take her life during the holiday season. she still
feels bad this time of year. >> now it's a struggle. it is. and i've done a lot of training. and i know
i have to beat it. i'm not just gonna hurt myself but it would hurt everybody else. >> reporter: it
made her feel like she had family and that people cared. >> there are people and organizations
that actually care. before i was in my darkest spot and i learned a whole lot of missing stuff. >>
reporter: it's important to make everyone feel like they're a part of something bigger. members
are coming in more during this time of year to stay busy and get extra support. >> making sure
that all of our members know there is a place where they're wanted and needed. we're open
on the holiday. that way everyone has a place to celebrate christmas and presents to open and
a family to be together with. because it is hard.
AM 860
Dec 4, 2019 • 2:15 PM

B_DEC_OREG_26

a few weeks ago the centers for disease control and Prevention reported that after stable
period from 2000 to 2007 the rate of suicide among young people between the ages of 10 and
24 or increased by 56% between 2007 2017 56% in 10 years suicide is now the second leading
cause of death in this age group after accidents like car crashes Jean 20 who's been a guest on
the show she teaches psychology at San Diego state University she writes said where in the
middle of a full blown mental health crisis for adolescents and young adults and she says the
evidence is strong and consistent both for symptoms and behavior along with suicide since
2011 there's been nearly 400% increase nationally and suicide attempts by young people are
suicide attempts by the young have quadrupled over 6 years and it's likely an undercount said
Dr. Henry Spiller director of the Centro ohio poison center who called the trend devastating
these are just the ones that show up in the E.R. John B ackerman is a clinical psychologist in a
nationwide June children's hospital in Columbus Ohio says we're at a point now where the issue
really can't be ignored we invest heavily in crisis scared which is the most expensive and least
effective means of preventing suicide now up he propose something that I think is radical I read
16

julie recoiled from it but I think it's probably justified he throws it more time and money be
spent on identifying kids who are most vulnerable helping them respond effectively distress
and teaching them the taken but they can do in a crisis he says what we need to do is start early
in the elementary get grades well given the fact that there are kids in elementary grades who
were attempting to kill themselves sometimes succeeding he's probably right in ohio he said
about 40000 students have been screened for depression and suicide risk and hundreds of kids
have been linked to services it's not putting I Ideas and their heads to asked directly whether
they had thoughts of suicide dying that doesn't increased their risks rather it It's relieving you
actually reduce the risk of you help kids talk through these difficult things doctors Spiller
attributes the rise in suicide attempts largely to the effects of social media and how teenagers
and young adults communicate with their peers kids now never disconnecting said they're
connected 24 7 to go to bed with their smartphones it maybe cyber bullying and may be NV
maybe many things are going on there now this article goes on and one thing that's fascinating
and there's extraordinarily strong scientific evidence for this one of the things about kids with
smartphones is it feeds into their sleep and one of the major contributing factors and high
suicide risk is a lack of sleep and particularly adolescents when you need it when you're growing
you're not getting the sleep you made doctor Ackermann as one of the experts here who
reports on this subject noted that young brains are less adept at dealing with complex
situations likewise he believes that social media playing an important role in the suicide prices
among the young but he sees the problem more broadly said there was a need for schools to
help counter its staff members can be trained and screening done within schools he said
ultimately it's a combination of economic social and technological factors that come together
along with family and school issues and kids are less equipped to tackle these problems
insufficient sleep is another issue undermining the resilience of today's teenagers several
studies have found that there's a direct.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_DEC_OREG_27

tomorrow -- two organizations are coming together to raise awareness about teen suicide in
southern oregon. it is an effort to decrease youth suicide. the lemonade project's goal is to
"squeeze out the stigma" surrounding the topic. the event is for teens only and is from 6 to 8
p.m. to learn more about the event and to rsvp -- go to the lemonade project dot com.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_28

two years after a brutal murder in washington county the man who killed a woman and left her
body in suitcases learned he'll spend the rest of his life in prison. >> details of this case are
pretty disturbing. fox 12's john hendricks is tracking the latest for us. he's live with the
emotional day in court. john. >> pete and nora no doubt a tough day here in the washing ton
county court. the family says the last 678 days have been tough but surrounded by hundreds in
their community. >> a memorial now sits outside of the home where sara was murdered on
january 19th, 2018. >> sara loved her family very dearly. we're missing a big part of us now. she
17

was a strong woman taken from them far too soon. nearly two years after her death jeremiah
was sentenced in her brutal murder and took a plea deal that will put him away for life. it lead
to this warning from the prosecutor. >> at this time i would ask that any family members that
do not wish to hear any details step out at this time. >> on january 19th, 2018, johnson picked
her up from a beaverton hotel and took her to his parents house near cooper mountain.
prosecutors say the pair was tangled up in drug deals and johnson would tie her up and murder
her in the basement of the parents home. >> he watched the life drain from her body and then
decided that he was going to sleep at that point in time to clear his head. >> johnson woke up
and needed to get rid of the body. that's when he dismembered her and put her body parts in
an over sized stuffed bear and several suit cases and then back of a car. that car was found.
while investigators were waiting for a search warrant johnson approached the car. >> police did
not have sufficient information to place the defendant under arrest. and he was allowed to
leave. >> but it wasn't long before police were in contact with johnston again. later that night
officer got the information they needed to make an arrest and found johnston in a ravine
outside of an an amentpartment complex bloody from a suicide attempt. prosecutors say the
head was placed in the stuffed bear and has never been found. >> claiming he was holding on
to that information as a bargaining chip that he would use later in his prosecution. >> a dark
chapter has been closed for this family and community. as they try to move forward they say
they'll never forget a woman loved by so many. >> her light will not be dimmed by the dark
shads do of these event and her smiles and laughter will not be forgotten in in the silence of the
nights ahead. >> while in custody, johnston tried to hire a hitman to go after the women who
went to turn him in. that plot was foiled before anything could happen. those charges were
part of today's plea deal. johnston was given the opportunity to speak in court. something he
did not wish to do. >> all right, john thank you.
KOBI
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_29

a new oregon department of human services report details a full account of what led to the
death of a medford two-year-old in august. you may remember the name aiden salcido from
when we reported that police in montana found his body in a remote area of the state. his
parents' bodies were found in another part of montana days earlier... police called it a murdersuicide.
KOBI
Dec 4, 2019 • 5:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_30

top local stories tonight -- oregon department of human services has released a report detailing
what they say led to the death of a medford two-year-old in august. police found aiden salcido's
body in a remote area of montana. his parents were also found that week... dead in a murdersuicide. oregon d-h-s had previously investigated the family. the department says they closed
the investigation... despite concern about the father's anger issues and the mother's mental
health. to see the full report... visit our website at kobi5-dot-com.

18

FM News 101 KXL
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_31

a Vancouver woman shot dead last week by her estranged husband tried to get help again and
again before the shooting KGW reports prosecutors argued in court that tiffany Hill was in
danger of being killed about two weeks before the actual murder she was gunned down in an
elementary school parking lot suspect later killed himself after a police Chase.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_32

we start at six with a a satin graphic story. a mamawwwmurdered and dismembered and a low
woman will spend the rest of his life in prison. it happened about two years ago. prosecutors
say a huge break in the case came when a prime suspect told everything to a fellow inmate.
who then flipped and became their top informant. make vespa joins us now. even tried to put a
hit on another witness? >> he did in the and gave the authorities that info, too. it is a big reason
why johnston finally gave in, changing his plea today to guilty. we want to warn our viewers,
some details in this case are disturbing. >> this social parasite who so selfishly took sarah's life
clearly did not think of ananhing other his own motives.>> jeremiah johnston sat silent,
shielded by his attorney today. and lessons. mckay did not think of the parents who would be
left to mourn the gravure loss of their daughter, something no parent should ever have to
endure.>> reporter: sarah is a ghouls sister here addressing the judge. >> he dddnot think of
the sisisigs who would be lost. is a piece ofof them was taken without consent. >> reporter: the
28-year-old mom and aspiring actress and model died in unspeakable death ididprosecutororor
attacked, murdered, and dismembered, stored in suitcases and in the trunk of a car, all at the
hands of a a man who they say was mad she owed him money for drugs. in january 2018, they
said he invited her over to his parents house to get high.>> at that time, there is a goal stated
that she was not going to repay isisdebtbtbt and that made the defendant become irate.>>
washington county prosecutors talked about how johnston viciously attacked as a goal. during
her down a flight of stairs. at one point they said, he backed off. she thought she might get out
alive.>> she asked the defendant for an opportunity y shower herself, and the defendant
agreed, knowing at that point in time that he was going to kill sarah's a goal.>> he did.
afterwards, sarah's phone lit up. her mom wanted to know if there is still wanted help getting
into drug rehab.>> the defendant claimed that he was sarah the goal. anna told her mother
that she had changed her mmm and that she was going gogogoon a trip and not to worry.>>
reporter: lee said that is when johnston stuffed his victims remains into suitcases. the suitcases
into a car. he then, they say, became suicidal, injuring himself and hiding in a nearby ravine.
neighbors the next day described to me how he started yelling for help.>> i was talking to a
murderer. right underneath our balcony. >> police arrested johnston. his trial was looming.
then prosecutors say ththgsgsgs changed when johnston n ononssed everything to a fellow
inmate who flipipd today, he changed his plea to guilty. outside, sarah's oldest sister spoke
again. >> sarah hasn't left hers, her spirit surrounds us every day. she will continue to live on
within our heavy hearts and minds. she will walk beside us in every step we take. her light will
not be dimmed by the dark shadows of these events.>> our hearts go out to her family. today
19

johnston pleaded guilty murder, kidnapping, and abusing is a ghouls corpse. i judge sentenced
him to life in prison with a minimum of 65 years, meaning, the 37-year-old will in all likelihood
died behind bars.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:03 PM

B_DEC_WASH_5

we are updating you on breaking news. three people were injured in a shooting at pearl harbor
naval shipyard in hawaii. this is the first photo from the scene. it appears to show the moment
that officers surrounded the suspected gunman. a spokesperson says that the situation is now
contained. a witness said he saw the gunman killed himself. these are pictures outside the base
which is still on lockdown. we are told that all three people shot are civilians and two of them
are in critical condition. the base will remain closed during the investigation and we will bring
you more information
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 4, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_6

Update to breaking news we brought you on komo news at 5:00, this is a live look outside of
pearl harbor in oahu where three people have been shot and two are in critical condition. this
happened on the naval shipyard drydock around 2:30 hawaii time. the entire pearl harbor naval
shipyard is currently locked down along with a nearby mcdonald's. this is a tweet from tom
george. showing the scene outside the nimitz gate as there was a flow of ambulances and
police head to the scene. a pearl harbor spokesperson says the situation is contained and a
witness saw the gunman shoot and kill himself. sources are telling hawaii news now that the
civilians are among the victims. >>> five people in three days have been hit by trains. three of
them didn't survive. we have learned from police that at least one of those deaths was
preventable. a captain told michelle esteban that he links it to what he calls the world we live in
now. she joins us live to explain what that means. michelle? >> reporter: eric, we are all guilty
of it. being distracted from time to time by technology. police say that was the case here. in
such a touching scene here, the flowers behind me go as far as the eye can see for the man who
died here. along a stretch of railroad tracks in puyallup, an act of love triggered by tragedy. >>
this incidence is tragic and it didn't have to happen. >> reporter: the flowers are for a coworker
snatched in an instant. >> unable to see or hear the train coming. >> reporter: captain ryan
portman says a 20-year-old dishwasher on his break taking a walk in the crosswalk never heard
the train because he had his earbuds in and a hoodie covered the sides of his face. >> what we
want people to be aware of is when you're approaching crossings take your earbuds out and
pop your head up and look around and make sure it is safe before crossing. this is 100%
preventable. >> you're not going to hear anything coming. >> reporter: john hiatt has been
investigating for 30 years. of the five people hit by trains, three happened Tuesday here in
sumner and another in kemp. two appear to be suicide.

20

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 4, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_7

a U.S. Navy sailor and two civilians the data during shooting a dry dock at Pearl Harbor the
shooter part of a submarine crew the motive for the shooting and the shooters connection do
as victims aren't clear the shooter shot 3 Department of defense civilian employees and then
shot and killed himself his rear Admiral Rob Chadwick we have no indication yet whether they
were targeted or if it was random should he says the shooter was an active sailor assigned to us
as Colombia the victims were all shipyard employees.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_8

developing right now on our live feeds, to people are dead after the navy says an active duty
sailor opened fire on civilians at pearl harbor naval shipyard. new video shows the emergency
response at the base earlier tonight. the gunman shot three civilians killing two men. a third
worker is in stable condition. the sailor shot and killed himself. the military has not released a
motive or the shooter's name. the violence comes three days before the 78th anniversary of
the attack on pearl harbor that launched the u.s. into world war ii. >>> from the live desk hawaii
congresswomen congresswomen tulsi gabbard tweeting saying sending my aloha and well
wishes to the victims of today's shooting. she is expressing gratitude to the first responders. >
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_9

us seller fatally shot two people and wounded a third at the Pearl Harbor naval shipyard in
Hawaii before committing suicide let your robertson is spoke to one of the Navy's Pearl Harbor
days one of the military's major installations very are not identifying where the Weapon came
from but it will be part of the investigation she says no word yet on a motive it don't know but
we are investigating messi and the motive will certainly be one I think the book that the
shooting comes just days before the 70 th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor kg be tv's
Chelsea Davis is outside the yard they are currently mobilizing support services for naval
shipyard personnel as well as and everyone else who may be affected now it's still unclear what
the relationship is between the shooter and the victims obviously in the sugar there's a mixture
of active duty personnel as well as civilian worker first the shipyard repairs maintains and
modernizes ships and submarines of the U.S. Pacific fleet.
KVAL (CBS)
Dec 5, 2019 • 5:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_33

the shooter in a deadly attack yesterday at the pearl harbor naval base has now been identified.
the 22-year-old >>> a shooter in a deadly attack yesterday. the pearl harbor naval base has now
been identified. he was dressed in his navy uniform when he shot and killed two men. both the
civilian shipyard workers. before turning the gun on himself. a third civilian shipyard worker was
21

wounded. he was taken to the hospital, in stable condition. >> a lot you had to do with all of the
security protocols. you have to make sure that the scene was safe. >> a naval official says
romero used his service rifle in the shooting and killed himself with a service pistol. the motive
still unclear. investigators are trying to determine if the gunman knew any of the man he shot.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 7:04 PM

B_DEC_OREG_34

I remember is that she was strong, she loved her children. she was terrified that he was going
to kill her. >> a clark county prosecutor talks about the Vancouver mom murdered by her
husband last week in front of their children. it happened, authorities said, days after he bailed
out of jail. something both the victim, tiffany hill, and the da's office had fought to keep from
happening. maggie vespa a a ning us now, and maggie, this case e a aul. it's also raising a lot of
red flags. >> it definitely is. tiffffy y lllllld just over a week ago and her estranged husband
keland hill shot and killed her as she sat in a car with her kids. the shooting happened less than
two weeks after ke zn land was in court on charges he talked and abused his wife. prosecutors
argued his bail ood bebebesed to keep him off the streets and away from tiffany. >> in the
same unit working together. >> reporter: larn boyd is the prosecutor who asked to raise the
bail. she says that she is devastated tiffany was killed and will carry it with her for the rest of
her life. in that november 15th appearance, boyd asked the judge to raise keland hill's bail from
$75 thousand to $2 million. she cited new evidence that hill had violated no contact order, put
a gps tracker on his estranged wife's car, and tried illegally to buy a gun. boyd and tiffany told
the judge they believed keland would kill tiffany if he got out. the judge split the difference,
setting bail at a quarter of a million dollars. boyd acknowledges that's high given the charges
and the fact that hill had no criminal record. and state statutes don't set a minimum or
standard bail in cases like this. and that is what boyd wanted to talk about today. >> personally,
i think that the way that we handle bail in these dangerous domestic violence cases needs to
change. i think that if somebody is -- has a no contact order preventing them from having a
firearm because of a domestic violence issue and they try to purchase a firearm, the law should
say they aren't entitled to bail. >> reporter: that's not what happened here. keland hill bald out
of jail six days after that hearing. five days after that, police say heheshot t t killed tiffany in her
car in the park lot of sarah j. anderson n ememtatata school.l. he also shot her mother who
survived. later, police said hill killed himself. so superior court judge john fairgrave set the bail
at $250,000 as opposed to $2 million, a bail that hill was able to post. we reached out to judge
fairgrave yesterday and again today for comment and he declined.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 5, 2019 • 12:32 PM

B_DEC_WASH_10

new details about a deadly shooting at the pearl harbor naval base. a sailor used his service
weapon in the shooting. the navy said the sailor shot three defense department employees
yesterday and then killed himself. two of the workers died and the other is hospitalized. people
on the base were on lockdown for 20 minutes. >> is it real, is it fake type thing. >> we have no
22

inned expaition if it was targeted or random. >> an scrags will uncover if lug plug knew any of
the men he shot.
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 8:25 AM

B_DEC_OREG_35

good evening, i'm lee anderson. we've learned the state won't seek the death penalty against a
bend mother accused of fatally shooting her disabled son. after a status hearing today,
deschutes county district attorney johnummel tells newschannel 21 he determined 30-year-old
tashina jordan's conduct, quote, 'did not warrant a sentence of death'. police say jordan shot
her 7-year-old son mason, then tried to kill herself with pills in august of 20-18. her trial is set
for October of next year.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_11

a mother from Yuba City California is suing the school District over her 12 year-old daughter
suicide Madison Ogletree said she had no idea her child had reached out for help needing
detailed her suicide plan in a text message which they were obligated to tell us they should
have told us they did not Ogletree said Morgan's seemed fine the day she died even turned in
Oliver homework as usual.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_12

there weeks before 12 year-old Madison Ogletree committed suicide she texted a friend about
doing it's friends older adults at her school in Yuba city california but the word never was
passed on to her parents her mother Morgan is now suing the school me we did not receive a
call we didn't know if she saw the counselor we didn't know that she felt Wow war that she was
planning this.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_13

still developing story. the search for a motive this morning after a gunman opens fire killing two
people at the pearl harbor military base. investigators say the shooter was a navy sailor and
that he opened fire near the shipyard in an area where nuclear submarines are maintained. the
active duty sailor, who was assigned to the uss Columbia, then killed himself. the entire base
went into lockdown when the shooting started. >> i heard a bunch of shots going off in the
area. and we were told by my chief to hunker down, stay indoors and just be safe. >> two
defense department workers were killed. a third was wounded. their names have not been
released. investigators at this hour are not sure if the gunman knew the men he shot. the
violence happening just three days before the anniversary of the Japanese attack on pearl
harbor.
23

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 5:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_14

the investigation continues at joint base Pearl Harbor Hickam after shooter killed two civilians
and himself yesterday come Taylor Pence I spoke with ABC Alex Stone who is covering the story
according to sources the shooter was 22 years old and his last name was world marrow and
Nichole incident report we now have a copy of here can't be said opened fire on the shipyard
workers choosing museum force service rifle and then you do have 9 Service Pistole shooting
himself in the head committing suicide he was downwind emergency respond ers got there he
is 3 victims had been shot two of them died one is in stable condition at a hospital right now in
honolulu but the motive for this is done no like so many of the actors shooters recently they do
not know the military today saying that they are beginning to piece this together and NCIS is
investigating it they got believe the fbi is assisting NCIS with anything that the naval
investigators may need but as of this point they're working on trying to figure out why he was
assigned to us said Colombia submarine the dry-docked right now it's getting routine
maintenance done but why do you carry out that they don't know Alex you know it's not kahn
men that someone on base would have two weapons with them was he on security detail some
kind that we op don't know right now would be crime from the brigade personal weapon and
leaf donna approved personal weapon on base but why did he have his him for and year's day 9
there is some indication he may have been doing security there are around the submarine in
the dry dock area but seems like there would be others security with them so that's not real
clear right now but the reason he may have been armed otherwise he typically would not an
armed may have been doing security but this for the military is not confirming that they're not
clarifying that it all of what was his role why was he there at the summary in dry dock why
would pr and we don't know it's still very much an operating joint base there at Pearl Harbor
wall of us think about the 1941 attacks anonymous with the name of the Harbor it's about to be
really busy time of year there for Yeah we're only two days away from the 70th anniversary of
the attack on Pearl Harbor there is a big ceremony its planned in the coming days and they said
they are looking Over their security plans they're making sure they don't need to make any
changes to them because of what just went on but this israeli appeared shaken folks up but
obviously they've got this big anniversary coming up now they're dealing with this as well the
pair had said that there are those who are emotional those who may need counseling services
those been made available to those on base today they go and seek counselors and several
different locations but these Who's been trying 24 hours ago election 24 hours they've been
dealing with those.
KBNZ
Dec 5, 2019 • 12:08 PM

B_DEC_OREG_36

a u.s. sailor shot three civilian departments of defense employees, wounding one and killing
two, at the pearl harbor shipyard today. >> that sailor then killed himself. military officials say
the shooting began around 2:30 in the afternoon local time. in the minutes after the shooting
base personnel were urged over a p.a. system and with text messages to shelter in place. a
24

lockdown that was put in place just after the shooting was lifted about 4:00. no names, no
motive has been released at this time. one victim remains hospitalized.
KREM (CBS)
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:36 PM

B_DEC_WASH_15

well we have an update now to a story that we first brought you as breaking news last night.
police say u.s. taylor used his service rifle to shoot three people yesterday at pearl harbor naval
base. the navy says two of the people he shot died last night the gunman also killed himself. a
third shipyard worker was also wounded but he's doing ok. that shooting happened near an
area where ships and submarines are repaired. just minutes after the first gunshots broke out
an emergency text alert went out to warn people of an active shooter situation. they don't
know what's going on but they're not letting us out. there is a shooter indoor shot at people at
the base hit for about 90 minutes. that investigation will uncover if the gunman knew any of the
men that he shot saturday by the way marks the anniversary of the japanese attack on pearl
harbor this doc was used to repair the ship's damaged seventy-eight years ago.
KXLY (ABC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 5:33 PM

B_DEC_WASH_16

there is also new reporting at this hour after that deadly shooting at the naval shipyard at pearl
harbor. a sailor opening fire on three civilian workers, then taking his own life. two of those
workers were killed, another wounded. tonight, we have now learned the name of that sailor,
and here's abc's kaylee hartung on the scene tonight. >> reporter: tonight, authorities
investigating why a u.s. navy sailor opened fire on the historic joint base at pearl harbor. a
military official says g romero, a 22-year-old active duty seaman, used his m-4 service rifle to
shoot three civilian workers in the shipyard, then killed himself with his m-9 service pistol.
witnesses say he was dressed in uniform. two victims were killed, the third, a 36-year-old man,
is in stable condition, recovering in the hospital. >> we have no indication yet whether they
were targeted or if it was a random shooting. >> reporter: the rampage put the base on
lockdown wednesday afternoon. emergency personnel responding within minutes. >> and i
heard a bunch of shots going off in the area and we were told by my chief to hunker down. >>
reporter: romero had been assigned to the "uss columbia," a submarine currently undergoing
maintenance at pearl harbor's dry dock. the tragedy shocking the base, just as it prepares to
commemorate the 78th anniversary of the attack on pearl harbor. >> generations of locals have
worked in that shipyard. certainly a tragedy for everyone here. >> let's get to kaylee hartung,
live from pearl harbor tonight. and we know the anniversary of the attack on pearl harbor is
just a couple of days from now, major ceremonies planned there? >> reporter: yes, that's right,
david. and military officials right now are discussing whether they should upgrade their security
for this annual event. dignitaries and about a dozen survivors from the 1941 attack are
expected to be here this weekend. the fbi is assisting ncis in its full investigation.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_17

25

we are learning new details about the shooting in Hawaii at joint base Pearl Harbor that left
two Department of defense workers dead along with the shooter according to sources the
shooter was 22 years old and his last name was Romero an initial incident report obtained by
ABC news as a sailor opened fire on shipyard workers using him for his service rifle many used
his damn 9 Service Pistole on himself committing suicide this sailor had been assigned to the
submarine U.S.S. Columbia NCIS is now investigating trying to figure out a motive.
KOBI
Dec 5, 2019 • 5:59 AM

B_DEC_OREG_37

a yreka man has pleaded 'guilty' to shooting and killing his brother on the day after christmas in
20-16. travis kimball was charged with murder .. for the death of his 51 year old brother troy
kimball. it happened at the father's home near bonanza. kimball pleaded 'guilty' as part of a
negotiated agreement. "that included attempted assault in the second degree, criminally
negligent homicide, and mr. kimball pled to both of those counts - the murder count was
dismissed." defense attorneys say kimball shot his brother to prevent him from assaulting their
father. kimball was sentenced to 3 years in prison, with credit for time served. a new oregon
department of human services report details a full account of what led to the death of a
medford two-year- old in august... including some troubling details regarding the parents. aiden
salcido's body was found in a remote area of montana. his parents' bodies were found in
another part of the state days earlier... police called it a murder-suicide. oregon's dhs released a
report wednesday detailing all contact the agency had with the family before aiden's body was
found... the report states d-h-s did have concerns about aiden's parents -- hannah yaniack and
daniel salcido... dating back to 20-16... during the pregnancy. dhs found the father had violent
tendencies and the mother's mental health was a concern. despite that... d-h-s closed their
investigation in june of 2019... two months before the family's tragic end. we reached out to
the oregon department of human services for comment. they told us the report speaks for
itself.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 5, 2019 • 6:00 AM

B_DEC_OREG_38

and investigation is underway after a sailor at Pearl Harbor Navy base shot 3 people killing two
of them before he turned the gun on himself CBS news military consultant Jeff McCausland on
what officials will be looking for what was the motivation this particular singer concern
obviously across the military it has been a high level of suicide so was this a combined murdersuicide which the shooter is planning telling himself from the very onset.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_39

first at 5:00, a vancouver mom's murder has a prosecutor calling for change. tiffany hill warned
the courts her estranged, abusive husband would kill her if he was allowed to bail out of jail. >>
26

days later, her terrifying prediction came true. and the prosecutor who fought to keep that
suspect behind bars is talking about changes she wants to see put in place. >> maggie vespa sat
down w wh h her and joins us now. this story has a lot of people fired up, maggie. >> clark
county prosecutor boyd thinks the murder could have been prevented and tried to sound the
alarm in front of the judge. this is video of that hearing in clark county superior court just days
before tiffany hill was murdered. keland hill had been accused of stalking and abusing his wife
tiffany. and the prosecutor argued that keland's bail should be raised from $75,000 to $2
million. the judge, john fairgrave, split the difference, setting it at $250,000, a quarter of a
million. within two weeks after that decision, keland hill was out on bail and tiffany was dead.
authorities say keland hill shoooand killed tiffany as she sat in a car with her kids last week. he
also shot or injured i should say her mother who survived. later, he killed himself. it's the exact
scenario prosecutor lauren boyd tried to prevent by asking ke land be held on such high bail. >>
why'd you go in requesting what you did? >> i was trying to prevent him from bailing out of jail.
his actions leading up to that hearing specifically that he tried to purchase a firearm that he
installed a gps tracker on her car is terrifying. it was escalating very quickly. i think that the way
that we handle bail in these dangerous domestic violence cases needs to change. i think that if
somebody is -- has a no contact order preventing them from having a firearm because of a
domestic violence issue, and they try to purchase a firearm, the law should say they aren't
entitled to bail. >> i want to clarify, that risk assessment boyd mentioned is a test the da's office
uses to gauge how much dang aerovictim is in. the highest possible school is a 41. and boyd
says anything above a 19 is a red flag. tiffany hill scored a 31. jujujujohn fairgrave is the one
who set the bail at that lower, attainable amount. we reached out to him yesterday and today
for comment but he declined. and we should note, legally there is no set standard or minimum
in cases like these, guys? >> thank you, maggie.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 10:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_18

A California school districts being sued by the parents of students who committed suicide the
girl texted a friend about her plan the message reached Yuba City California school officials who
failed to tell her parents yard erer broken our family is broken Morgan Ocoee 3 believe she
could have helped her daughter we he didn't know that she felt Wow or that she was planning
this but text reach school official 7 weeks before the girl took her own life heartbreak doesn't
begin to describe what Pence Pence medicine Ogletree was 12.
Portland's CW
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_40

jessie: christian snyder, a longtime nxivm member, disappeared in alaska during a midnight
kayaking trip in february of 2003. >> i think keith raniere had inappropriate with her, which
would have thrown her off her rocker. she reported to me that she was pregnant with keith's
baby. >> jessie: kristin's friends rallied to her find her. >> like a police officer gets shot and you
don't get one please critic it shows up, you get 20. it was like that with chris. >> jessie: though
27

her body was never found, christian's death was ruled a suicide. her friends don't buy it. >> first
when i heard she committed suicide my initial reaction was i didn't believe it. >> jessie:
meanwhile, at raniere's house in albany, new york, at least two high-ranking members of nxivm
have died of cancer. >> the other two deaths are, both of these women died from cancer. >>
jessie: frank parlato think something sinister is at play. >> i think in time raniere will be
considered a master criminal kin to charlie manson or jack the ripper. >> jessie: keith raniere
will be sentenced next month on trafficking and racketeering charges. in the meantime you can
also turn into the two-hour special, "the lost women of nxivm." this sunday at 9:00 p.m.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 7:20 AM

B_DEC_WASH_19

An active duty U.S. sailor whose submarine was docked at Pearl Harbor opened fire on 3 civilian
employees a gunman opened fire at Pearl Harbor in hawaii yesterday killing two people this is
where Rep Rod had had also afford this Earth we spend on me and I don't 0 active duty sailor
assigned to us us Colombia has sent 7 71 also deceased an apparent self-inflicted gunshot
wound to BC news course what Alex Stone is with me right now Alex what kind of details and
feeling on this greg good morning like so many the active shooters recently the motive this
morning is unclear but the military is saying today it was an active duty sailor has heard Verisign
the U.S.S. columbia that's a submarine that in dry dock at joint base Pearl Harbor the that Sailor
Opened fire on civilian dockworkers yesterday Department of defense workers who are not
active duty military it had been a quiet day by all accounts people around there say they didn't
hear any arguing made near any screaming they just heard pop pop pop and then that the
sirens coming in and the people got down they locked down he is unclear right now where the
weapon came from personal weapons are not allowed on base Taylor may have been in this
isn't clear yet but part of the security detail around U.S.S. Colombian may have had a weapon
for that reason the that commanders saying they don't of the Saylor had a beef with the victims
of the new his victims had they been having a disagreement over something but he shot 3
dockworkers then the sailor put a gun to his head and shot and killed himself he was dead
when police got there the 3 dockworkers were alive they were transported to a hospital two of
them died one is in stable condition right now and now NCIS is investigating trying to put all this
together and figure out what was the motive what caused that that the sailor to pull out a gun
and began shooting those dockworkers right Alex thanks very much for the update.

28

B_DEC_WASH_20

KREM (CBS)
Dec 5, 2019 • 4:00 PM

the shooter in yesterday's deadly attack at the pearl harbor naval base has now been identified
as a 22-year-old sailor. the navy says he shot three defense department employees then killed
himself we just learned a few hours ago that he also used his service weapons to carry out the
attack. was there a shooter in george touma. so the shooting happened near dry dock to which
is an area where ships and submarines are repaired? it happened just minutes after the gunfire
broke out that an emergency text alert went out warning of an active shooter situation is telling
people to lock lockdown where they were or find shelter the place was in lockdown had to do
with all the security protocols that had to be sweeping the nearby buildings and you have to
make sure that was complete and that the scene was safe before we let off the lockdown. an
investigation will uncover if the gunman knew any of the men that he shot. the anniversary the
japanese attack on pearl harbor is just two days from today. this dock where the shooting
happened was used to repair the ships that were damaged 78 years ago.
KVAL (CBS)
Dec 5, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_41

a deadly shooting at the historic pearl harbor naval bases has prompted a security review there.
the navy says the u.s. sailors shot to the defense department boys and then killed himself.
donut jonathan is a just outside honolulu. >> active shooter. >> reporter: a gunman and it is
navy new york you when he shot and killed two male civilian shipboard your workers before
turning the gun on himself. >> the shooter who was been identified as an active duty sailor
aside to use of columbia is also deceased by an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. >>
author civilian shipyard worker was wounded, he was brought to the hospital in stable
condition. the deadly shooting happened near dried-up to an area where ships and submarines
are repaired. minutes after gunfire broke out, and emergency alert went out a warning of an
active shooter situation and telling people to lockdown where they were or find shelter. >> i
don't know what's going on but they're not letting us out. >> people at the base for around 90
minutes. >> is there a shooter? >> know they said taken the shelter. >> before the lockdown
was lifted and the scene secure. >> the bases and lock down. there had to be sleeping nearby
buildings and had to make sure, the scene was safe. >> reporter: and investigation will uncover
is the gunman new any of the men he shot. >> we have the indication yet whether if it was a
random shooting. premia >> reporter: police have not released the names of the victims or the
shooter, we have two days away from the anniversary of the pearl harbor attack the dock
where the shooting took lace was used to repair ships damaged. nearly 70 years ago. cbs news,
hot on honolulu.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 9:45 PM

B_DEC_WASH_21

we continue to learn new details about a deadly shooting at the navy shipyard at pearl harbor.
investigators say an active duty sailor used his service rifle to kill two civilian workers and injure
29

a third. he then used his service pistol to kill himself. >> i heard loud pops. and i kind of
recognize that as gunshots. i looked out the window and saw three people on the ground. >>
the sailor was assigned to the fast attack submarine columbia which is in dry dock at the
shipyard. right now investigators don't have a motive for the shooting which comes days before
the 78th anniversary of the japanese attack on pearl harbor. the military said it had already
planned to boost security before saturday's ceremony.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 5, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_42

school buses on the way to cal young middle school this morning were re- routed because a
man was threatening suicide at a home near the school incident began around 7 am. and the
the man was taken into custody soon after. it caused traffic disruption in the area that lasted
about 30 minutes. the man's gun was not fired and no crime was committed, police said.
although it did disrupt school bus arrival and kids arriving at school. there was scare at oregon
city high school... after a student was arrested for bringing multiple weapons, including a
handgun with ammunition, to school. luckily no one was hurt. police say the school's resource
officer received a tip that a 16-year- old student had a handgun in his waistband yesterday
morning. officers found the student in class and detained him. the student was arrested for
unlawful possession of a firearm and disorderly conduct. police have not released his name and
are investigating a motive.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 5, 2019 • 11:45 PM

B_DEC_WASH_22

new details involving shooter at covered a wide left to Department those workers dead along
with the shooter Here's NBC'S Alex Stone according to sources the shooter was 22 years old
and his last name as Romero an initial incident report obtained by ABC news is as a sailor
opened fire on shipyard workers using him for his service rifle many used his him 9 Service
Pistole on himself committing suicide this sailor had been assigned to the submarine U.S.S.
Columbia NCIS is now investigating trying to figure out a motive george Zimmerman is suing the
family of Trayvon Martin another's 400 million dollars Here's ABC Steve Mostyn somhing in a
lawsuit filed in florida he's making the unsubstantiated claim that rachel John tell was a fake
witness coach in her testimony by prosecutors in the victim's family on the witness stand she
testified she was on the phone with the unarmed black teenager as Zimmerman was shooting
him to death but the suit accuses her of some House standing in for her half sister who didn't
want to testify in the case and says that prosecutors and police were all in on that and more on
her lawyer filing the lawsuit has long his Street of pushing conspiracy theories and suing black
lawmakers critics call Larry Klayman pathologically litigious he once submitted a petition to
deport President obama and his legal tactics have gotten sanctions and bans from some
courtrooms this lawsuit is coming at the same time Zimmerman is featured in and is promoting
a new movie the film makes the same accusations trayvon martin's family says they feel
victimized yet again calling this another failed attempt To defend the indefensible and then
they used searing and trying to make a Buck rather Zimmerman's lawyers being called out for
30

publicly sharing the contact information of former witnesses and former prosecutors including
one was now a Circuit court judge in these same documents Zimmerman's contact information
is redacted.
KLSR (FOX)
Dec 6, 2019 • 10:21 PM

B_DEC_OREG_43

the shooter in yesterday's deadly attack at the pearl harbor naval base has been identified. 22year-old u.s. sailor Gabriel Romero was dressed in his navy uniform when he shot and killed two
male civilian ship yard workers before turning the gun on himself. a third worker was also
wounded. he was brought to the hospital in stable condition. >> the places on lock down had to
do with all the security protocols that had to be sweeping nearby buildings and had to make
sure that was complete and everything was safe. >> a naval official says Romero used his
service rifle to shoot the victims and killed himself with his service pistol. a motive is still
unclear.
KOAB (PBS)
Dec 6, 2019 • 7:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_44

judy: there are a number of unanswered questions regarding the artist vincent van gogh. there
was mental illness. but a precise diagnosis is still disputed. an early death at 37 thought to be a
suicide, but not certain. what we do know is that he was a difficult and pained man who
produced some of the world's most exuberant paintings, becoming one of the most beloved
artists of all time. jeffrey b trown uakesths ugroh a new exhibition. it helps us see how he got
there. part of our ongoing arts and culture coverage "canvas." >> it is the most famous stare in
art history. vincent van gogh. >> if you are sitting on a stool in a bar and someone turns to you
with this look, you might want to move. this says something about vincent. he is out there
emotionally and this is my life. >> the curator of a new inspirations" in south carolina's capital
city. it presents a less familiar van gogh. the wayward struggling, largely self-taught young man
who learned from looking hard at the world. >> this is one of his very first teachers. >> and the
work of artists around him. >> this is seeing how van gogh became van gogh. >> that is the
question we sought to answer. he does not come out of the womb painting. it takes a lot of
failure, a lot of experimentation, a lot of false starts, number of early successes, and you have
to look at a lot of things to arrive at "starry night." that does not come out of nowhere. >> most
of his best-known paintings date to the last few years of his short life. they rarely travel and are
not here. what is here, 12 van gogh's o n loan from museums around the country surrounded
by works of 30 other artists, most from earlier in the 19th century. the drawing of an old
woman by rafaeli next to one by van gogh of a worker. a sejapane would print -- wood print
side with van gogh's d.orchar paa tiin ongtwf osa pea nntsext an to vh' gogefs be cart. van gogh
would retain some elements of what he saw, even as he later exploded them into his own
revolutionary style.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 6, 2019 • 2:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_23

31

a two-step unveiled this week by the U.S. Postal service seeks to recognize soldiers among us
caring very heavy burden trying cover explains the first class forever stamp is titled healing
PTSD Post traumatic stress disorder and features a new Green growing plant emerging from a
pile of dead leaves it means a lot to retired Marine Dan Miller first off I just want to say this is
an incredibly beautiful for sure to leave the idea of new life emerging from something so dark
was foreign to nowhere for long to a big cost Arena and E trade and I was in the infantry you
know we're always train to take care of pain and just take everything and I really couldn't bury
everything and PTSD was never something that was talk about shortly after retirement Dan I
could no longer remain silent I lost 16 of my brothers in combat since the home I lost my my
brother's suicide I couldn't stop I myself came very close one day is calling it quits because I
couldn't deal with small going on because those free cash is military training and career had
built a tough shell shell was now cracking he got involved with the wounded warrior project and
the tough sergeant learn how to raise his hand and ask for help a first step is this new stamp
may help others raised their hands by quelling the stigma of PTSD and reminding soldiers
everywhere that it's okay to ask for help not only is it okay its human eye there are thousands
and thousands are still isolated still afraid and still raise that hand you see Marine Corps
Reserve major racist chants and how was unheard of and people Wow if you can do it I can do
right calvary.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 6, 2019 • 8:33 AM

B_DEC_OREG_45

a record-breaking crowd came out to honor the late deejay, avicii. he was 28 years old when he
died by suicide. after his death, his parents started the foundation to advocate at suicide as a
global emergency. they put on a two-hour tribute to raise awareness of mental health with
performances of some of his biggest collaborators. >> an all-star tribute to one of the world's
most beloved recording artists with singers like adam lambert, rit ora and aloe blacc. coming
together for the first time to perform avicii's biggest hits. wake me up when i'm wiser and when
i'm older >> singers performed alongside an orchestra which was one of his dreams. >> what is
your goal with the foundation? >> trying to get the stigma away from talking about mental
illness and suicide. we hope we can be a voice through tim because tim h so many millions of
fans. >> everyone knows that i've been anxious. >> in a documentary film before his death, he
talked openly about his anxiety and addition. >> i can't see a way to do this and be happy about
it. >> he quit touring in 2016 to focus on making music. less than two years later, tim took his
own life. >> what do you say to fans of his that might be dealing with the same things he dealt
with? >> we have to talk about this. you shouldn't be afraid to ask for help. i don't care you
want to tear me apart >> the money raised will go to organizations that provide mental health
resources honoring tim's life. >> tim was one of those bright and shining stars who impacted
the world with the music he gave us. >> and with his life. >> the 55,000 tickets sold out in 30
minutes. everyone who performed performed for free. i know how much that meant to his
father. >> what a beautiful tribute. >> so important to the family.

32

on a somewhat related note, emergency responders put their lives on the line to protect us
every single day. >> but several studies have shown the struggles and nature of the job have led
to a high suicide rate. much higher than the general population. there is help. >> as michael
reports, many folks gathered today to start these important conversations. >> reporter: mental
health is a tough subject to talk about. >> very few agencies know where to start. >> reporter:
for starting the conversation is a life or death issue for first responders. >> how much are we
doing as a professional to train? >> reporter: that is what is happening here in paris at the first
responder conference on mental health and wellness. >> the things we see and endure
throughout our careers can be tough. is a tough profession. >> reporter: helping give people
the tools to process that , themselves, coworkers, and their families. >> it is super important to
talk about those things. so that you don't fill your bucket and overflows, because that leads to
unhealthy behavior. >> reporter: king county sheriff's deputy shawn thomas found at this
conference, this is the 18th since 2016. addressing a critical need. research shows first
responders are more likely to die by suicide than in the line of duty. >> basically, the whole
conference is to let people know you are not alone and that there's a lot of confidential
resources out there, so please reach out, because there's a lot of folks that want to help.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 6, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_24

kennewick police are grazing the work of a 911 dispatcher who convinced a woman to remove
a gun she was holding to her head and cooperate with police. it happened this morning, action
news was there at police detained the woman. we are not releasing the location or the woman
to respect her privacy. just before 8:30 this morning, the woman called 911 telling the
dispatcher she was holding a gun to her head while police responded, the dispatcher convinced
the woman who put the gun down and walked outside to talk with officers. police had a mental
health professional and they assisted the woman so she could get the help she needed. this is a
good time to remind everyone that there are resources out there for you or anyone you know
dealing with depression that could lead to harm. the national suicide prevention lifeline number
is on your screen, 1-800-273-8255.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 6, 2019 • 6:33 AM

B_DEC_OREG_46

i was devastated. i am devastated. this case and this victim will be with me for the rest of my
life. >> those are the words of a clark county prosecutor who said she tried her best to protect
tiffany hill. she was a vancouver mother shot and killed by her husband last week in the school
parking lot. authorities say it happened days after he bailed out of jail. something both tiffany
and the district attorney's office fought to keep from happening. maggie vespa has more details
now. >> in the same unit working together. >> reporter: lauren boyd is the prosecutor who
asked to raise the bail. she said she is devastated tiffany was killed and will carry it with her for
the rest of her life. in that november 15th appearance, boyd asked the judge to raise keland
hill's bill to $2 million. she cited evidence that hill, accused of stalking and abusing his wife, had
violated no- contact orders, put a gps tracker on her car, and tried illegally to buy a gun. boyd
33

and tiffany both told the judge that they believed keland would kill tiffany if he got out. the
judge split the difference, setting bail at a quarter million dollars. boyd acknowledges that is
high given the charges and the fact that hill had no criminal record and state statutes don't set
a minimum or standard bail in cases like this and that is what boyd wanted to talk about today.
>> personally, i think the way that we handle bail in these dangerous domestic violence cases
needs to change. i think that if somebody has a no contact order preventing them from having a
firearm because of a domestic violence issue and they try to purchase a firearm, the law should
say that they aren't entitled to bail and they should just be held without bail. >> reporter: that's
not what happened here. keland hill bailed out of jail six days after that hearing. five days after
that, police say that he shot and killed tiffany in her car in the parking lot of sarah j anderson
elementary school. he also shot her mother who survived. later police said hill killed himself.
maggie vespa, kgw news.
B_DEC_WASH_25

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 6, 2019 • 4:05 PM

night impure wallop Chuck and Judy Cox will hold a vigil for their daughter Susan Cox Powell
who disappeared you Todd 10 years ago today her body has never been found her husband
joshua was suspected of killing his wife killed himself and their two sons in a fiery explosion in a
home in 2012 ingram and seasons parents are going to hold that vigil tonight by their grandsons
grades what you say when you said the for country you look at it it's greates well we believe
they're there with the mother they're not in that environment that josh was raised in a
generator for children and my daughter didn't want them to be raised that environment that he
killed them but they're now free of his control and of that environment he was draped Gannon
and was perpetuating move forward Chuck we he would try to help other people I get calls
from people saying well because this is my story my daughter or reassess what was going on in
her life in and escape this situation and now she's safe and doing better and or if about
themselves they've had docent choose so if you can help somebody else if not they bring your
daughter your children and grandchildren back but it helps somebody else a year they shut
down completely or you can reach out to help other people or you know hate the world and
that does not always believe there should be doing we believe are supposed to help each other
10 years ago was the last time you heard from your daughter what do you remember the of
time to talk to my daughter she was happy looking forward to Christmas looking forward kluber
starting at center present them thank them it is good she said key things were better thought
maybe the Earth and I was relieved from and the next thing you forward to you I think I hear
her Journal polls show that she really wanted to leave him but she stayed you believe that he
you don't give up on America your your spouse you speak truth and our perfect and so she was
trying to be that person was even a 100 can hurt you no harm to her purse On her side and
maybe that would be enough to help her husband change but the reality was that she didn't
realize how dangerous a guy he was and he made a mistake and telling him he would she was
planning on leaving and she made a mistake with these other people who are pro own the
things that it happened there finding her remains even bringing peace well it would be better
for the winter when you give up on someone I loved what on farming when you stop searching
for them well of course I never and kill if we get a firearm I mean I would know it or she and
34

then we wouldn't want to bury her back here but other than that it really would change
anything I know that Frank we get through it day by day and Mac Christmas time comee card
we also think it's important that the good people of the world there are a lot of them that they
stand together and help each other out and we know that's what she would want to do with
the year how well-known her story here that we should use every tool we can to try and make
sure that more people horror and benefit from those things that we learned and I have talked
to them let them to re-evaluate their early I can have a situation with obviously they can all
Chuck Cox thank you so much for taking time our thoughts are with you and judy thank you.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Dec 6, 2019 • 4:28 PM

B_DEC_WASH_26

meanwhile, first responders from across the northwest gathered today for a conference on
mental health. but it wasn't about helping the people they serve, it was about making sure they
take care of themselves. the conferences founded by the king county sheriff's deputy shawn
thomas back in 2016. she says it was important to have these conversations to make sure that
they can stay on the job and be ready to help others. >> things we see and endure throughout
our careers can be tough, it is a tough job. and the things you see, you can't unseat. so you have
to processor those events. if you don't processor those events and talk about those things, then
they lead to, sometimes, depression, sometimes, coping with alcohol. sometimes, you know,
anxiety, and a lot of people get pts i, which leads to peach tsd. >> research has shown that
firefighters, law-enforcement officers, more likely to die by suicide than in the line of duty. so, it
is great they founded this idea and have been doing this annually. >> one of my favorite quotes
i heard from someone who is a doctor, she said self-care is not selfish. i thought that was,
especially for those taking care of other people, like there.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 6, 2019 • 7:35 AM

B_DEC_OREG_47

Clark County prosecutor is devastated by the murder of a Vancouver mom by her ex-husband
now okay excels tapper reports that prosecutor want to bail laws changed Lauren boyd asked
Judge John fair aggrieved to set bail at two million $ to keep key in the hall from bailing out he
tried to buy a gun and had put a GPS tracking device on his estranged wife Tiffany Carr the
judge set bail at two under 50002 weeks later Cuban Hill shot and killed his estranged wife from
their 3 kids and then killed himself I I was devastated I am devastated this case and this victim
will be with me for the rest of my life boy talk with KGW in that mid-November bail hearing she
told the judge tiffany Hill was in grave danger page W reached out to the judge for comment he
declined Boyd says this case shows the need to change bail in dangerous domestic violence
cases.
KFFX (FOX)
Dec 6, 2019 • 8:53 AM

B_DEC_WASH_27

35

new information on breaking news in florida... now.. four people are dead after a shooter
opened fire at the naval air station in pensacola. the shooter is one of the dead. according to
the sheriff. seven are injured, including 2 sheriff deputies investigators still trying to understand
what lead up to this tragedy. which comes just 2 days after the deadly shooting at pearl
hardbor... we have just learned the navy sailor involved in that shooting... who fatally shot 2
and killed himself. was undergoing counseling and told counsellers about being unhappy with
commanders.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 6, 2019 • 7:30 AM

B_DEC_WASH_28

to talk about that day I me pretty clearly remember going to school all and mom would always
walk me inside into the classroom and this day she walked me into the playground then she
said I could go and buy myself if I wanted it I hope so grown up and I didn't give her a hug bad
and didn't say good-bye and gone to the classroom and I immediately started crying and ran
back out but by that time she was gone I just felt so guilty you know I hadn't given her one last
time I remember getting a call from the office that she had not picked up in the first year or two
after mom diane and I remember feeling helpless you know like there's nothing I can do to fix
this remember I apologize to you Yeah society I learned some people races I know it's not like
her mom's you can really want to hear about all the time and I felt really bad but I think I was
just so angry when I read that the time had come to understand why he did it remember when
you're done you look at the moon yesterday and moms out there and I had this whole story
about how she was Ms. city on my own they had in that bathroom window that opened that I
didn't have a screen and you can see the moon perfectly from there he said look out when I talk
to her so what would what would you want your mom to know about you now I want to know
my personality and I want to know how tall I am am almost all of them you and I don't know
where I'd get things gone from its so like our family is a giant I he should be very proud of you is
there anything that you've learned about yourself I've learned a lot about death and dealing
with it because I struggle with that for so long I couldn't go to sleep I did my leave us afraid
something would happen that one time I can't come this was their biggest fear I was like way
that's not my biggest fear anymore so I guess I'm stronger than Think I am that was josh we do
with his daughter Silvia crows vault the story is part of story cores road to cilians project he
uses storytelling to help kids cope with the death of a parent her loved ones if you or someone
you know is in crisis you can call the suicide Prevention lifeline.

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 6, 2019 • 3:45 PM

B_DEC_WASH_29

the White House a new stamp unveiled this week by the U.S. Postal service seeks to recognize
those soldiers among us caring a very heavy burden come on brian stelter explains the first
class forever stamp is titled healing PTSD Post traumatic stress disorder and features a new
36

Green growing plant emerging from a pile of dead leaves it means a lot to retired Marine Dan
Miller her first off I just want to say this is an incredibly beautiful pressure the idea of new life
emerging from something so dark was foreign to nowhere for long to not something they've
also created and being traded those meals country you know what you're trained to take your
and just take everything really couldn't bury everything and PTSD was Universe something that
was talk about shortly after retirement Dan could no longer remain silent I lost 16 of my
brothers in combat and going inside the home of lost time my brother's suicide I couldn't stop
them I myself came very close one day is calling it quits because I couldn't deal with what was
going on because I was afraid to ask for help his military training and career had built a tough
shell shell was now cracking he got involved with the wounded warrior project and the tough
sergeant learn how to raise his hand and ask for help tougher steps Miller is this newsstand
may help others raised their hands by quelling the stigma of PTSD and reminding soldiers
everywhere that it's okay to ask for help not only is it okay its human and there are thousands
and thousands are still isolated still afraid and still raise that hand I have to see a Marine Corps
Reserve major racist chants and how was her vote for me and people.
AM 860
Dec 6, 2019 • 6:52 PM

B_DEC_OREG_48

there are photos of jeffrey epstein and trumpet party so I don't believe the hype but the
clintons on the other hand bill Clinton visited the Ireland where jeffrey obscene kept all of the
alleges reported sex slaves and bill and hillary were reportedly visited and the baby making
ranch the and Steen had out West And so you know it howard Stern wanted to be a real
reporter real brave guy he would have asked hillary clinton about her Association with jeffrey
epstein and maybe about how many times they visited the baby making ranch or F sting was
dreaming of having a whole bunch of babies born he had fathered it gets creepier and creepier
the more we learn about this guy and I'm glad we're not gonna have to endure the cost of
putting him on trial but his death is always a question I don't think he killed himself and neither
did the guy who went into a walmart this week and pretended that he couldn't find his friend
so we ask the people at the courtesy booth if they could page his friend and I'm not going to
spoil it for a year but here is the 30 seconds and magic me you do everything if you're asking
me you know we need your thank you how do you not love that that is just the most fabulous
thing the way Mr. Glenn Gould and killed them up staying the I know I shouldn't be laughing at
that there are people out there who get mad when you sort of make light of suicide but in this
case I think it was how I guess you could call an arc inside that the Arkansas connection
probably had something to do with jeffrey epstein leaving this world early by Novo ever get the
whole story but think we all know the real story I don't think jeffrey have seen killed himself
there is too much at stake for the Clintons for that to happen.
KTVL (CBS)
Dec 6, 2019 • 5:45 PM
B_DEC_OREG_49
a heartbreaking story tonight near sacramento, california. the mother of a 12-year-old girl who
died by suicide is now suing the school district. the c.d.c. says suicide is the second leading
cause of death among children between 10 and 14 years old. jamie yuccas reports tonight on
37

the story that is every parent's worst nightmare. >> reporter: madison ocheltree was just 12
years old when she texted a friend about being bullied, and that she was contemplating suicide.
did you see anything like this coming? >> no. absolutely not. she was a happy kid. >> reporter:
in a lawsuit, her mother, morgan ocheltree, alleges that on april 5, madison's friend alerted a
teacher who shared the suicide threat with the principal and vice principal. a counselor met
with madison and promised to follow up. >> my husband and i weren't contacted. we didn't
even know that she saw the counselor. >> reporter, that according to the lawsuit, violates the
yuba city school district policy on suicide prevention which states, "whenever a staff member
suspects or has knowledge of a student's suicidal intentions, the principal or counselor shall
then notify the student's parents or guardians as soon as possible." >> i am an involved parent,
and my husband is an involved parent. and we had no idea. >> reporter: seven weeks after the
initial text, the lawsuit claims that one or more of the persons who bullied madison urged her
to commit suicide as late as may 23, 2019. that very next day, madison ocheltree turned in her
homework assignment and hanged herself. do you think the school just blew this off and didn't
think it was a real threat? >> i honestly do. she explicitly said that she wanted to commit
suicide. all it takes is a phone call.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 6, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_30

a deadly shooting at a naval air base in Florida. three people and issued or were killed. naomi
roush some has new information about the suspected shooter.>> reporter: the fbi is leading the
investigation into the mass shooting at naval air base Pensacola where a saudi aviation student
opened fire. >> when you have a foreign national involved, in that part of the world, the
investigation will be different than if it were someone from a local community. >> cbs news
confirmed its Mohammed authorities say he was part of a group of international students
training at the base. >> they learn aviation and become aviators while they are here. we've
done this with our partner nations.>> reporter: investigators say he killed three people and
wounded several others, including two sheriff's deputies before one of the deputies took him
out. >> walking through the crime scene was like being on set of a movie. >> reporter: the
injured were taken to hospitals including the deputies. nas Pensacola is the navy's most historic
bases employing more than 16,000 military and 7400 civilian personnel. >> this is a tragic day
for the city of Pensacola. nas is him incredibly important for 200 years. >> reporter: there's no
word on a motive, whether the gunman had a great or if the shooting was terror related.>>> a
similar scene played out at pearl harbor naval base, in the shooting the navy said he usa was
shot three people wednesday and then killed himself. two died and the other was hospitalized.
the military officials say the shooter was unhappy with his commanders and was undergoing
counseling. a military official said the sailor used his service weapon in this shooting. officials
are trying to learn the motive.
AM 860
Dec 6, 2019 • 7:55 AM

B_DEC_OREG_50

38

County Sheriff David Morgan is briefing reporters about the shooting at the naval air station
Pensacola Let's get the very latest from Sheriff Morgan County Sheriff David Morgan
Approximate 6 51 this morning the call went out to the King County sheriff's office sent a
dispatch that there was an active shooter on the naval air station Pensacola we had two units
immediately respond no many to come behind course while we would love to do a full
disclosure with you this morning about everything that we are aware of quite obviously we
cannot do that there are things that we're now in the investigative process that required to be
held back by not just the Escambia County sheriff's office but hardly federal agencies which of
course the fbi the A.T.F. and Associated federal partners that we have and the U.S. attorney's
office is also president of the mayor said I want to share our community that the the threat is
vindicated our community secure at this time we have no reason to believe or are we looking
for any additional shooters than Escambia County not just within the parameters of an eye
Pensacola I would tell you this strikes phone to play hard for me is retired military member
walking through the crime scene was like being on the set of a movie and is the mayor
eloquently put it you just don't expect this to happen at home this doesn't happen in Escambia
County doesn't happen in Pensacola it doesn't happen to our friends and neighbors who were
members of the United States Navy Unfortunately it happens everywhere and this is yet
another another awful awful act of evil evil those rare on does I don't know how the shooter
was taken down and killed himself or if he was if he was shot by somebody else but in any
event our hearts and our thoughts and our prayers and our wishes for healing go out to the
entire community Pensacola.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 6, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_51

a Clark County prosecutor says a murder suicide of an estranged Vancouver couple will stay
with her for the rest of her life lying Let's find out now from care excels Pat boyle Lauren boyd
tried to get judge John fair aggrieved set bail for the husband cuban Hill two million $ last
month Hill had tried to buy a gun and put a GPS tracking device on tiffany Hills car I believe the
state believes that if the defendant is released he won't help judge set bail at 250002 weeks
later Hill shot and killed his wife in front of their kids and then killed him Self tiffany had read a
letter at the bail hearing sharing her fear that account if you get an opportunity to get in my
children have no family here nowhere to go get some money and lower highs just make sure
about that audio from KGW prosecutor Boyd says bail laws need to be changed when it comes
to dangerous cases of domestic violence.
B_DEC_WASH_31
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 6, 2019 • 8:57 AM
losing her as a loss and even those opposed to her idea was came out and said that bill Mr.
because they don't have people challenging them to so I'm sure that it is still pretty shocking
that she is no longer alive and in fact even the way that she took her life stepping in front of the
train her father told the Miami Herald she was adept at masking depression did you know she
was depressed I did not you know houses generations see a lot of my peers will joke about
things like suicide fighter tina taking their own life we say it as a casual remark not I'm serious

39

thing coming so I think that that's a huge problem with the way that we use language now days
thumb I did not ever for a moment suspected that a Hunter was capable of killing herself I was
helping her scholarship applications but only a week or two before you know I should have a
bright future we had just incorporated she went the day before dying to BB&T open up a bank
account for us for writers' alliance so I was I mean I'm still in shock it so what would you say two
other teenagers if they're worried about their friends I think is very important to the to check
up on people even if not that close anymore because you know like on instagram doesn't mean
you're still there for them thing I have said it really be there for people and it's something that
was social media and moving away from physical interactions of people that were really losing
kevin we're so sorry for your loss and I hope that you're able to continue the work that you
know Honda had been doing on public transportation in miami that is kevin domestic who is
the acting president of the nonprofit miami riders alliance of things remember his friend cofounder Paul Hunter the greato who died by suicide last week at the age of 17 and fewer
someone you know is in crisis you can call the National suicide Prevention lifeline.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 6, 2019 • 11:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_52

f.b.i. is investigating the second deadly shooting at a u.s. military base in just three days. four
are dead, including the shooter. this after a saudi arabia air force member opened fire on a
florida base. investigators say it happened in a training area which hosts military students from
around the world. the gunman shot several people. deputies responded within minutes.
shooting and killing the suspect. in addition to those killed, seven others were hurt, including
two deputies who responded to the scene. >> real heroism today. i mean real heroism. it made
me, i'm devastated. we are in shock. this is surreal, but i couldn't be prouder to wear the
uniform that i wear. >> the f.b.i. is not saying whether this was an act of terrorism. the saudi
government says it condemn little the crime and pledges full cooperation with the
investigation. again, this was the second shooting at a high profile u.s. naval base this week.
wednesday, a u.s. sailor opened fire on civilian employees at a dry dock at pearl harbor. two
were killed there before the gunman killed himself. investigators do not think this case was an
act of terrorism, but they are still trying to determine a motive.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 7, 2019 • 11:20 PM

B_DEC_OREG_53

some other people sent me a disgusting picture shows one day in I received an inch knife with a
text that said I'm going to kill this isn't money and monkey and so how do you deal with that
how does it make you feel when you received that kind of message he moved to be honest I
trying to get by and calmness be me it should be I just tip my real life was much more
exhausting guessing as main elements it's still a third most of the off a frenzy get cut by hate
one of the options to deal with there's commences to cool the side of police and career I had it
set off suicide police health is quite common among many korea announces all th money and
did nothing to us Let's talk about sunday's death what was your reaction when you found out
that she had died by suicide the all O take comments definitely an issue for the cable industry
40

but aside from the hate comments saying I think this stereotype or take high doses of place to
be a lag son he was the one he's part of this very distinctive off the sheet with Jordan from
Keiko great facts she often posted images of herself promise and mostly private eye test with
her boyfriend the polls I have had very positive opinion on have priced in those images and as a
K pop singer life I thought these things is something we can freely express I was really
frustrated by stereotypes okay hopes its equipment she behaved with courage that's the
reason why she received huge attention I mean comments at the same time she just suffered
loans and leases how did you feel when you found out she had died gauging each I didn't feel
right now I I feel so sorry she ended up deciding to do what she did as I used to be in a position
like them I was very successful to happen to I think the cable industry needs to change now I
get it I'm not getting cocky that was way 8 K pop star she's now the host of the YouTube
channel way land I'm joined now by Gen she's a journalist and encourage eye on TV in Seoul
how has the public the industry responded to those two recent deaths by suicide Apr silly Yeah
so the sands industry and South Korea are angry and confused about the latest string of K-pop
star is death to apparent suicide and is reunited the conversations about the issue of cyber
bullying gender violence in especially the mental well-being a celebrity he's a living in this and
South Korea's intense Cape Cod bubble across society here of course a quad guy and so only
those two singer turned actor States definitely stood out to me they were speaking up for
themselves openly social media and they try to break this mall in industry and the South he's
society where despite changes taking place there's still remains highly male-dominated
Confucius preacher article and conservative nature so many critics here believe that immediate
culture that's quick to build up the knicks rising star and and is equally fast knock him down
again bears some responsibility for the deaths of these 20 somethings stars and number of idols
over the last decade some said korean lawmakers are proposing ante bullying legislation can
you tell us about that it Yes absolutely so these recent apparent suicides have given rise to this
conversation of cyber bullying trolling On online hate comments and that's given legislators'
here in South korea to to pursue a new bill floor to educate tm basically cyberbullying
education compulsory and schools and private businesses and the new law will allow them
basically give penalties it's not educated poor or give incentives for those who who make very
efforts to educate the students and staff about the danger of bullying and online one open up
the discussion now to our two guests may impress one and what we've we've had an
interesting conversation here in the UK around on these issues and some of my mayor cool nd
program he's young you see 3 by Jesse nelson he's one of the as banned from it makes you
talked about not bringing any impact on hiring a fun day led had considered suicide in fact
suicide attendance and Nick these stories always remind me that and there's no way to live as a
woman in a public stage without being D object all of profound and often violent misogyny
you'll either you're too fat you to sing U2's sexy you to critique you're too confident and owner
of these aspects of simply existing is female and used his and the cools full a profound hatred I
think I read today in sayed of women's success and women's power while and I do question to
what extent you know who is around an anti-bullying in schools for example and I think it's
really important effects schooled by do you want that is is that enough for Council but T around
the employer is why I mean his that the record label to how the jews gfk hearing the UK we've
seen around reality TV celebrity who committed suicide there is a responsibility when you hire

41

people to do a joke to ensure that they are well physically and city and fueled fading not I don't
think we can simply pushed program to schools
KREM (CBS)
Dec 7, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_32

woman: so, greg, it's a lot to take in. woman 2: and i know that's hard to hear, but the doctors
caught it early. hi, blake! my dad has cancer. woman: and i know how hard that is to hear. but
you're in the right place. man: and dr. pascal and her team, they know what to do. they know
what to do. the doctors know what to do. so here's the plan. first off, we're going to give you
all... (voice fading away) things we see and endure throughout our careers and can be tough.
it's a tough job. it's a tough profession. emergency responders put their lives on the line to
protect the rest of us every day. but several studies show the struggles and nature of the job
have led to high suicide rate much higher than the general population. but there is help as
michael crow reports many gather today to start the conversation mental health is a tough
subject to talk about. very few agencies know where to start. but starting the conversation is a
life or death issue for first responders. how much are we doing as a professionally trained living
well to point them in that direction. that's what's happening here in berea at the first responder
conference on mental health and wellness things that we see and endure throughout our
careers can be tough. it's a tough job. it's a tough profession helping give people the tools to
process that in themselves co-workers and their families and so it's super important to talk
about those things so that you don't fill your bucket and overflows because that leads to
unhealthy behavior. king county sheriff's deputy shawn thomas founded these conferences.
this is the 18th since 2016 addressing a critical need. research shows first responders are more
likely to die by suicide than in the line of duty. basically the whole conference is to let people
know you're not alone and that there's a lot of confidential resources out there so please reach
out because there's a lot of folks that want to help. that's why kathy browning likes her job as a
firefighter into quilt. i know that cliche answer is helping people but i really do love helping
people. but now she also knows she needs to help herself as well. kind of hit a brick wall. i knew
some tools to take care of myself but i wasn't utilizing them and nor was i telling anyone that
maybe i needed some help. i really makes a starting point for any agency is training and that's
the goal here. an agency might start the conversation and keep it going to make sure these first
responders can too. and we get a lot of great feedback and then we also get people calling us
saying thank you so much.
B_DEC_OREG_54

News Radio KEX
Dec 7, 2019 • 3:00 PM

The shooting in Pensacola one of two naval base this week two people died at Pearl Harbor
Wednesday before the shooter an active duty sailor killed himself Saturday a large crowd of
Pearl Harbor marking 70 years since the japanese attack brought us into the second world war
or at 7 55 a.m. hawaii time the same time the japanese attack began at Pearl Harbor these guys
their heads as we observe a moment of silence to honor the events that occurred at this
moment 70 years ago today that the national anthem the whole alliance state song and
42

Hawaiian spiritual ceremony which includes the glowing of a conch shell among more than
2000 people the ceremony about 30 were War two veterans including a dozen frail survivors of
the attack which killed more than 23 100 U.S. servicemembers the youngest are in their late
90s.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Dec 7, 2019 • 7:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_33

protestors in be bureau wrenn gathered for a conference on mental health. the could be
inference was founded by the king county sheriff's deputy sean thomas in 2016 and says it is
important to have these conversations to make sure this he can stay on the job and be ready to
help >> the main goal is to let folks know they are not alone. please reach out. you are not
alope and we want to help. >> members of law enforcement are shown to more likely die by
suicide than in the line of duty. so if you are a first responder call code 4 northwest at the
number on your screen.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 7, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_34

a solemn vigilant he Walla last night marked the anniversary of the northwest family tragedy 10
years ago on December 6 Susan Cox Powell vanished from her Utah home her husband Josh
Powell was suspected of murdering her josh also killed himself and their two sons paris 7 TV
spoke with Susan's dad Chuck Cox my daughter is missing and our grandchildren were filled
with a lot of people have had issues in our life lost loved ones we're not alone in that we can
support each other last night's vigil at Woodbine cemetery was also open to anyone who has
suffered the loss of a child ever.
KMTR (NBC)
Dec 8, 2019 • 8:36 PM

B_DEC_OREG_55

and officer involved shooting in portland. please tell us the latest details as the investigation
continues. strike a local teen making big moves to help younger patients in the hospital. we
hear her story and how you can help. a special edition of nbc 16 news starts right now. >>>
good evening and thank you for joining us. police need your help locating a missing teenage girl
that may be in danger. 17-year-old mildred grace sweeney was reported missing last night from
her junction city home. the family said she had been suffering from depression and possible
suicide alley. she told family she was going for a walk and never returned home. she left behind
her cell phone and concerning notes. she is described as 5'5" with blue eyes, short blonde hair
and a slim build. she wears glasses and has multiple ear piercings. anyone with information is
encouraged to contact the junction city police department.

43

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 8, 2019 • 6:14 PM

B_DEC_WASH_35

the devastated parents of a 12-year-old girl who died by suicide are suing a California school
district. they claim they might have prevented their daughter's death if authorities had warned
them. jamie yuccas has the story. >> i wish i knew she felt that a lone. >> madison ocheltree
was just 12 kreers old when she teched a friend about being bullied and was con tell plating
suicide. >> did you see anything like this coming? >> no, absolutely not. she was a happy kid. >>
in a lawsuit her mother morgan ocheltree alleges that on april 5th madison's friend alerted a
teacher who shared the suicide threat with the principal and vice principal. a counselor met
with Madison and promised to follow up. >> my husband and i weren't contactedment we
didn't even know she saw the counsel we are. >> that according to the lawsuit violates the
reasona city school policy on suicide prevention which states whenever a staff member
suspects or has knowledge of a student's suicidal intention, the principal or counselor shall then
notify the student's parents or guardians as soon as possible. >> i am an involved parent. and
my husband is an involved parent. and we had no idea. >> seven weeks after the initial text, the
lawsuit claims that one or more of the persons who bullied Madison urged her to commit
suicide as late as may 23rd, 12019. that very next day, Madison ocheltree turned in her
homework assignment and hanged herself. >> do you think the school just blew this off and
didn't think it was a real threat. >> i honestly do. shi explicitly said that she wanted to commit
suicide. all it takes is a phone call. >> a request for an interview with yuba city school district
officials were turned down. Madison’s mother says she just wants other children to know there
will be people who listen if they speak up.
KVAL (CBS)
Dec 9, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_56

police are looking for help finding a missing teenage girl who may be in danger. the 17-year-old
short blonde hair and was reported missing last night from her junction city home. her family
says she had been suffering from depression and could possibly be suicidal. she told family she
was going for a walk, and never returned home, leaving behind her cell phone and some
concerning notes. she is described as 5'5" with blue eyes, short blonde hair and a slim build.
KOHD (ABC)
Dec 9, 2019 • 6:12 PM

B_DEC_OREG_57

It's been a very difficult year for the family of elizabeth smart. after the kidnapping and later
recovery of 14-year-old elizabeth they've now spent the last 12 months grappling with mr.
smart's miadssion that 'she higay, wadch he mits that guttedhis wi fe. he e spok withour jim
moret. >> one year ago ed smart's wife lloisooked in his eye and asked him something. >>
december 10th my wife asked me are you gay, and i finally said yes. >> it's real. it's rea l. he>> t
spattery familcabe me onnatilyal prominent during the pikidnapngan the d miusraculo uerescei
of thr erdaught iz elinabeth 2002. w nosmart is kispeang out about his struggle to come out to
his wife of 34 years. >> somehow this person atth i haveloved myolwhe life thinks that i'm this
44

horrible person. >> she talking to you? >> no, we don't talk. i'm sure she feels betrayed, she
feels like, what was our marriage. >> what would you want her to know? >> that i care about
her, that i -- you know, i still do velo her in this element, and i'm so y.sorr >> lois filed for
divorce, which grwas anted last month. izbut el abeth,w noa d chilsa adfety vocateand mom of
three, is standing by her dad. >> she, along ewithacy h of mch , ildren- were -owyou kn, i th
eyink th were surprised. i mean, your dad comingout and saying that he's gay. butu i mean,
elizabeth said to, mehedad, wouther yy 're ga or i not wantyou in my life. >> i interviewed
smart h in utawh ere he was speaking is at an educational event for the btlgq plus coy.mmunit
>> ifyou n'cat loveseyourlf, then how can you loerve oths? >> had you gone through periods of
self loathing? had you ever thought of suicide? >> you know, there were actually a couple of
times where it passed thmyrough mind. me i an, i just thou yght, ou know, it would be easier to
be dead. w >>ophat stped you? ti>> i serll aft very strong belief in god. i believe that elizabeth's
return was a miracle. n>>ow at e ag64, smart says 's he finallypt acceo ed whhe is. his new life
involves a return to the dating scene. >> just tell me honest thal first date, did it go okay? >>
yes. >> it did. >> it was -- in a way it was kind veal electrifying.
KMTR (NBC)
Dec 9, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_58

jackson city police are still conducting interviews in hopes of locating a missing teenager from
johnson city. mildred sweaney was reported missing on saturday. a lot of information has been
going around social media regarding her disappearance, but that the information has been
developed. the family said she has been suffering from depression and possibly suicidal. she
taught family she would be going for a walk and never returned home, leaving behind her cell
phone and concerning those. she has been described as 5'5", short run here and a slim build.
she has multiple ear piercings and wears glasses. anyone with information is asked to contact
the johnson city police department.
AM 860
Dec 9, 2019 • 1:20 PM

B_DEC_OREG_59

you're right now home working on a new book I understand the down the problems of the
parenting adolescence and you were right in the middle of parenting your own adolescence and
what I did there are some indications that then we get Pete Wehner just wrote about this
recently in a column that adolescents are doing better in some areas in terms of drug use
apparently veered they're doing better in terms of general drug use in terms of very early
sexual involvement they're doing better what's G most worrisome sign the choosy about and
adolescent difficulty right now well I mean Turkey is one of thee one way we judge whether
they're doing well not doing well there's a riot in not great Ryan and depression anxiety and of
a sharp rise in diagnosed with ADHD which kind of traffic no we don't understand in the country
that played diagnosed with ADHD of overdiagnosis and over medicated but jeff if the brain that
the teenager praying on the track and we have seen a sharp uptick in the number of children
and teenagers on A.D.H.D. medication so you know we're E everything chef you know who they
are they being a nominee I think we will hear from you because the old health information
45

come out will become something else I mean it's a little bit like gum plowing snow in the winter
struggling with no it doesn't melt protective pushed around different areas I would say right
now depression anxiety high grade and high E age peak rate in America kindness suicide rates
here stunning now we're approaching 3 times the level of suicides of murders Yeah I would
never use to be the case it's great that murders have gone down but why why do you think
general way and particularly among People in the Prime of life it's people UNMEE ages 21 to 49
the word killing themselves why well I had been with the nominee I'm Natalie allen the time I
do the brain development for a book I'm writing a lot about the brain development of of
teenagers then at a certain point and battling infection when there's a sharp rise and migrate
Matalin are not forward thinking I can't really imagine the future they could they live very much
in the present and what that means is if there is a durable they can't keep the how that knee
injury but note that don't be better in the future and so those were teenagers get stuck in that
moment for Italy teenagers to have him on notice I think everybody is looking at it and
everybody catching them if a very credible and harsh and pregnant and nobody is looking at
these problems I would recommend this perspective for early childhood particularly being
there I WI prioritizing motherhood in the first 3 years matters the authors erica a coma sara I
opened when we come back more about basic values are under assault on an adventure one of
the reasons I like working with Nick Grove village of American fan girl is when we first started
out he did a complete review of some of the precious medal some coins that I had purchased
before if you're holding anything like that you want to find out exactly how much it's worth you
can get a totaly free of praise all explain how this works.
KVAL (CBS)
Dec 9, 2019 • 6:12 PM

B_DEC_OREG_60

we are continuing coverage tonight. the 911 call september 11th, it is about tiffany and kierland
hill. that call being released revealing more insight into the months leading up to a murder
suicide involving the peer in vancouver last month. the night of the september 11th call is when
deputies say things got violent. the next day, investigators say tiffany got a protection order
against keelan. that happened nearly 80 days before kierland hill would ultimately shoot and kill
his wife. the color who is a family member, called 911 from out-of- state to get police to check
up on the three kids. according to the color, she got a text message and knew something is
seriously wrong. >> they say, help. mom and dad were fighting. >> when i called, they were
crying. they said something happened and they are fighting. >> okay. >> they were scared. >>
police were dispatched that night to the home. tiffany reported to police that there was an
argument. 60 days later, kierland was in court after breaking that protection order. less than a
week after that, she shot and killed tiffany in front of their children. >>> the gunman posted
anti- american tweets before the kids. no one has said how or where she purchased the
handgun he he used in the attack. the 21-year-old should there was a second lieutenant in the
royal saudi air force. he held a dinner party days earlier where he watched mass shooting
videos with the others saudi students. according to ap, one of the three students recorded
video outside the classroom building as the shooting was taking place. fbi says there were
multiple videos from security surveillance, as well as witness cell phone video state can. it is still
doesn't know whether the gunman acted alone or whether he was part of a larger network.
46

KLSR (FOX)
Dec 9, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_61

the search is intensifying for a junction city teenager who could be in danger. police say 17year-old mildred grace sweeney was reported missing on saturday night. the family says she
has been suffering from depression and it may be suicidal. she described as a 5'5" with blue
eyes, short blonde hair and a slim build. she wears glasses and has multiple ear piercings.
junction city police say her information is now in a nationwide database for missing children.
her photos have been sent to eugene, springfield and junction city businesses. they want to
hear from anyone who could have additional information on where she could be.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 9, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_62

a frantic 911 call gives more insight into the months leading up to a tragic murder-suicide in
vancouver. today through a public records request katu obtained a 911 call the day before
tiffany hill obtained a protection order for her husband. >> i'm steve dunn. >> i'm deb knapp. in
november keland him shot and killed his wife in front of their children before taking his own
life. keel lekellee azar has more. >> those three children had seen this fighting and abuse
before. this 911 call was made by a family member who does not live in at the area and we will
not be identifying them. worried for the children's safety. that's what the 911 caller was most
concerned about on september 11th. the call came from out of state and she says she received
a text message from the children saying help, help, help. that's when she tried to call. >> i said - [audio not understandable] >> this is the night according to police that led to a report of
domestic violence on behalf of tif any hill. next day she would get a protection order. the 911
caller said the children told them keland threw tiffany on the grounds. >> have they ever done
this before? >> not in a long time. i have heard some years ago. >> some 60 days later keland
would face a judge after breaking that order. less than a week after that he would kill tiffany in
front of their children in their elementary school parking lot.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 10, 2019 • 4:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_63

three months ago -- a veteran told democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders he was
considering suicide. medical bills were mounting on the man after he was diagnosed with a
hereditary disease and kicked off his insurance. john weigel attended a campaign rally for
sanders with an update on his situation. he says two lawmakers heard his story and stepped in
to help straighten out the problem with the insurance company. "because of your support,
senators cortez-masto and jacky rosen got involved and straightened out my bills with tricare.
and i was retroactively reinstated and i only have to pay the 29.50 a month from when they
canceled my insurance without my knowledge, so thank you for rescuing me, and i have this to
give you." weigel presented the senator with his leather flight jacket. sander didn't keep the
vet's jacket -- but he did accept a pin from him that he put on his own jacket.

47

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 10, 2019 • 4:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_36

a man recently charged with giving chloroform do was young stepdaughters also accused of
child molestation and rape allen Bittner was arrested in early November for allegedly giving his
13 year-old step daughter the chemical which Koster to pass out and stop breathing the even
clock career hail reports Twitter originally told officers he didn't know what the chemical was
but believed it would kill bacteria he bailed out but then violated no contact order by moving to
a residence near a child he was arrested again November 19th and again made bond but then
failed to appear in court November 27th because was hospitalized for an apparent suicide
attempt the girl and her sister have since told investigators they were sexually abused by him
over the last two years and bitter told not to trust police or child protective services.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 10, 2019 • 11:45 AM

B_DEC_OREG_64

The strategy there then undercut efforts to shock the public into responding to what what he is
doing Interestingly with Nixon the obstruction of Congress was a much bigger issue in the end
this really moved a lot of Republicans to say this is wrong he has to follow through with the
process where is today you know Republicans basically said it's okay for him to obstruct
everything well and okay for a lot of things we were remembering with bill clinton it started as
an investigation by Ken starr into the suicide of vince foster there were conspiracy theories
launched by the Wall Street Journal and others opinion pages and others that the clintons had
something to do with their friends suicide moved into the investigation of clinton's finances and
didn't find anything there and ended up with a blue dress and the abuse of power in the Oval
office but relations between bill clinton and monica lewinsky it's amazing the terms that took it
it's kind of unbelievable the substance was much less serious in terms of the ultimate action
compared to what we're talking about today.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 10, 2019 • 8:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_37

man recently charged with giving get chloroform do young stepdaughter now also accused of
child molestation and rape how ended near was arrested in early November for allegedly giving
his 13 year-old step daughter the chemical rich custard pass out and stop breathing the even
clock career hail reports bitter originally told officers he didn't know what the chemical was but
believed it would kill bacteria he bailed out but then violating a no-contact order by moving to a
residence near a child he was arrested again November 19th and again made bonds but then
failed to appear in court in November 27th because was hospitalized for an apparent suicide
attempt the girl and her sister have since told investigators they were sexually abused by him
over the last two years and the bitter told not to trust police or child protective services those
carly jobs report did there will be arraigned on the new charges.

48

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 10, 2019 • 11:30 AM

B_DEC_WASH_38

all right. the police in the Czech Republic want to know why one man went on a deadly shooting
spree inside this hospital. the officers say the man started shooting people inside the waiting
room early this morning. the police say the gunman killed six people and wounded three more.
detectives say the accused gunman killed himself as officers closed in. the police say the killer
used a gun he obtained illegally.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 11, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_65

Police say callers reported a man with a knife in his hands. he tells me he couldn't tell if the
person had a weapon. he says once police arrived it happened quickly. >> first officer told the
man not to take another step forward. that was the only command i heard from him was do not
take another step forward. he kept walking. >> police identified the man as co-ban hendrickson.
his father said his son previously attempted suicide by cop. as katu news reported in dispatch
audio officers were advised about a previous incident. >> could be a coincidence but several
weeks ago a guy tried to induce suicide by cop in the same area. >> katu looked into his criminal
past and found no history of violence. in a 2013 misdemeanor case court records show
hendrickson was at the oregon state hospital, a psychiatric facility. i reached out to the portland
police bureau again tuesday. we asked police for the timeline leading up to the shooting, if
hendrickson was armed, and if he was known to police prior to the shooting. but we were told
police couldn't answer those questions because the investigation is ongoing. those two
portland police officers involved in that shooting have been placed on paid administrative
leave. that is standard for these types of investigations. lashay wesley, katu news
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 11, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_66

a tragic news from Oregon city according to a letter sent home to parents in the Oregon City
school district a 4th grade student Ed holton elementary committed suicide they haven't
released any details about the student or their death the District will have counselors and
members of its crisis response team at the schools over the coming days if you or your child
need help right away called the National suicide Prevention lifeline at one 802.3 talk that's 1900
to 7.8 to 5 5 or call 9.11
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 11, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_67

according to a letter sent to parents in New York City school district a 4th grade student at Hook
elementary committed suicide there are no details about the student or third death is not being
released as of yet the District will have counselors and members of its crisis response team at

49

the schools over the coming days if you or your child need help right away please call the
National suicide Prevention lifeline that number is one 800 to 7 3 to talk or you can call 9.11
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 4:17 PM

B_DEC_WASH_39

something else that's new today there is now going to be a suicide prevention number
nationwide that should be easy for most of us remember I can imagine there is a single soul of
the country doesn't think this is a good idea if if you are considering doing yourself Harbor
you're depressed and in need help there is a line right now you can call plea to 100 he's 7 3 I'm
a-okay talk act they 100 consumed pre talk about obama's most people when they're very
depressed other considering some thing comparing him so I can remember that number this is
to me your number of the FCC just proposed the mind 8 8 FT like I wanted to do a benign aid
aid it Golic number in Q2 where Rubio local counselors from suicide direction folks are there to
help you it will be easy to remember.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_68

we found out just yesterday that the school's principal sent a letter to parents sharing that a 9year-old had died by suicide earlier this week. after first feeling the shock of it all, we heard a
lot from parents about how do we talk to our children? young children about topics as serious
as suicide? today we spoke with a specialist in clackamas county about how to tackle the
difficult subject. >> it's something as simple as hearing -- seeing a young person, seeing a first
grader feel sad. seeing them cry or seeing them tantrum and saying, wow, it looks like you're
feeling big feelings, it looks like you're feeling sad. >> kellee: she vessels it's important to put
words to feelings and help young children know how to explain what they're feeling. even if the
words are as simple as "i'm sad," she says starting that communication early on in life is vital.
while it may feel very foreign for us to talk about suicide to a fitch-year-old, let alone an adult,
she says it is a very important conversation. coming up at 5:00, and 6:00, we're talking about
how to start those conversations. i also spoke exclusionively with the aunts -- exclusively with
the aunt of this little boy. what she wants everybody to know, next at 5:00. live in oregon city,
kellee azar, katu news.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 12:07 PM

B_DEC_OREG_69

the portland Christmas ships which sail our rivers every december helped save a man's life. on
tuesday, the ships were floating down the willamette near the steel bridge when they saw a
man in the water struggling. the president of the christmas fleet, rob stephac was leading the
way. he stopped the parade and turned his boat around to help. he managed to get that person
on board but said it was a close call. >> december at night in the willamette, not a lot of boats
going down the river. >> portland fire crews took the man to the hospital. officials say he had
tried to take his own life. rescuers said he was alert when they took him out of the water. >>> if
50

you or someone you know needs help, the national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24/7.
that phone number is on your screen. 1-800-273-8255.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 7:20 AM

B_DEC_OREG_70

suicides in this country are increasing in the construction industry has one of the highest rates
one employer is addressing the problem by trying to be open about it and offer support to their
workers and the Yukon and each has their story and just a quick warning there's some difficult
subject matter here it's been 5 years but that memory haunts Michele Brown who works as a
construction superintendent a colleague and his workday be giving away his personal hand
tools to his co-workers he was generous but I had a gesture no one intended to come back to
work I would do such a thing it's a huge huge so we didn't know that them we know that the
young man went home and killed himself he was found shortly afterward by co-workers who
belatedly understood the significance of his gifts that event shook arcane mechanical 15 100
employees including its co-owner John Canning have had an impact on me just like Oh my God
you know we were just completely unaware of how even identify signs of somebody was is
struggling in the weeks and months afterward King brought together industry leaders and talk
to suicide experts rk which was founded 56 years ago by King's father eventually put together
what is now regarded as a model for suicide Prevention in the construction industry in most 24
hour access to counseling services lenient leave policy's and crisis trading from managers most
importantly says caning the company raised lots and lots of open talk about mental health the
summit ensure open the possibility you have a job to do you get in here we just changed a town
culture I talk to them all nearly every Time have a group of them course the impact we've
averted probably or 15 suicides 2014 that's a pretty good success other companies are now
copying our case approach but the struggle is ongoing risk factors for suicide in this industry are
still numerous and even our K is not immune to them most construction workers are young and
middle aged men the same population likely to die by suicide substance abuse runs high
especially were opioids are prescribed for workplace injuries block the military that's working
construction and many struggle with past drama.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 12, 2019 • 4:21 PM

B_DEC_OREG_71

an easier way for people to reach the "national suicide prevention lifeline" i in the works the
current hotline is a ten-digit number. the federal communication commission voted today to
chan it to -three- digits the number would be 9-8-8. today's vote is the first step in months-long
process. ne comes a comment period, th an order from the f-c-c. ### for more resources you
can to our website, k-t-v-z dot co just click on 'let's talk' the community section.

51

KOBI
Dec 11, 2019 • 6:31 PM

B_DEC_OREG_72

an easier way for people to reach the "national suicide prevention lifeline" is currently in the
works. the federal communications commission voted today to change the current hotline
number from its ten-digit number... to a-three- digit number. the number is 9-8-8.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 11:00 AM

B_DEC_OREG_73

the National suicide hotline could get shorter easier to remember number 9.8 and peers Eakin
good she reports the federal communications Commission voted to move ahead with plans to
simplify this number this country suicide rate continues to rise currently one of the most
effective ways of preventing suicide the National suicide Prevention lifeline the number of
people who rely on it for life saving resources is climbing last year over two million people call
the toll-free line at 102.3 talk but signing shorter dialing code 9 8 aid would make it easier to
access for many.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:04 AM

B_DEC_OREG_74

according to a letter sent home to parents and the organ city school district a 4th grade student
hold an elementary committed suicide no details about the student or the death is being
released but the district surviving parents the have counselors and members of the crisis
response team at the schools over the coming days also fewer your child needs help right away
you can always call the National suicide Prevention line.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 12, 2019 • 5:06 PM

B_DEC_WASH_40

a very tragic story. a fourth grader at holcomb elementary school took his own life. you can
provide more information about suicide but do not give graphic details. >> when somebody
says that i'm thinking about killing myself. even if you think they're trying to be funny or that it's
drama you need to take it seriously. people don't just go around talking that way. >> if you
need someone to talk to you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk
(8255) or call 911.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_41

S.E.C. wants to add 9 aid aid as an emergency lifeline to all phones for anyone considering
taking their own life in easy to remember three-digit number they can reach trained counselors
at the National suicide Prevention lifeline could really make the difference between life and

52

death the S.E.C. chairman G prizes in miami dade suicide Prevention proposal could take more
than a year to become reality.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 12, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_75

dan: federal regulators are getting closer setting up a new three-digit number for a suicide
prevention hotline. once it's implemented, people will just need to dial 988, similar to calling
911 for emergencies or 311 for city services. experts hope it will make it easier to seek help and
reduce the stigma associated with mental health. currently, the national suicide prevention
lifeline uses a 10-digit number, 800-273-talk. >> i think of what i was going through when i was
having those really hard days, those really black days of my mind, remembering phone numbers
was nearly impossible. dan: callers to the current line are routed to one of 163 crisis centres,
where counselors answered 2.2 million calls last year. a law passed last year required fcc to
start working on the 3-digit number.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_42

the simple way for people contemplating suicide get help CBS news correspondent Peter King
we call 9.1 for emergencies and soon people may be able to dot Eldest 3 digits for help from the
National suicide Prevention hotline the Senate Commerce Committee approved the bill moves
the proposal forward the FCC says it would be expensive about 575 million $ for the first year
but the agency is starting to take public comments and mental health officials say it would be
worth it for easier access hotline got more than two million calls last year that number doubling
since 2012 experts say suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the U.S.
KLSR (FOX)
Dec 12, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_DEC_OREG_76

a man who was killed in a deadly police shooting in portland on sunday. the portland police are
revealing very little about what happened during the shooting. they identified the man who
was killed as gauvin henriksen. in an interview, his son has previously attempted suicide by cop.
we found no history of violence in his record. the timeline of events if weather this shooting is
still unclear. police say they can't release that investigation.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_43

suicide Prevention could get a boost from new hotline number we call 9.1 4 emergent isn't
soon people may be able to dial just 3 digits for help from the National suicide Prevention
hotline the Senate Commerce Committee has approved a bill to move the proposal forward the
FCC says it would be expensive about 575 million dollars for the first year but the agency is
starting to take public comments and mental health officials say it would be worth it for easier
53

access hotline got more than two million calls last year that number doubling since 2012
experts say suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the U.S.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:05 AM

B_DEC_OREG_77

in northeast Portland police say they are looking for a suspect after a shoot near garfield and
fremont. we know one person was hurt and taken to the hospital. we don't know how they're
doing. Portland police are asking for anybody two who knows about the case to give them a
call. >>> experts and psychologists will be at the holcomb after a fourth grader died by suicide.
>> you can see a list of resources up on your screen, and you can also find more resources on
our website at katu.com
B_DEC_OREG_78

News Radio KEX
Dec 12, 2019 • 9:30 AM

Counselors and crisis response team members being made available at an Oregon city inches
school following the suicide death of a 4th grader the Oregon City school district says a local
elementary school student took his own life Tuesday family members confirmed the suicide
was cause of death.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 12, 2019 • 8:36 AM

B_DEC_WASH_44

Tuesday night and spotted a man struggling in the water near the steel bridge person started
going under soed they were probably under for about 30 seconds Senate seat but will coming
up just ahead and above they used a boat hook to rescue him sheriff's deputy's okay W the
man was suicidal he was taken over each issue Stepic says he's glad he was in the right place at
the right time.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 5:03 PM

B_DEC_OREG_79

the family of that 9-year-old boy says he was bullied. katu's kellee azar is live in oregon city. this
is a topic kellee that forces parents to have a very difficult conversation with their kids. >>
kellee: it absolutely is. it's one that parents have to have the courage to be open about. but the
cdc says it's important because youth suicide in the last 10 years has jumped over 50%. happy.
loving. caring. and funny. those are just some of the words family uses to describe elijah huff.
>> elijah was a very good boy. he was very loving, very caring. he cared about people. he was
just amazing little boy. and his life was taken too short. >> kellee: earlier this week, at just 9
years old, elijah took his own life. >> still shocked. i want to believe this is a dream. i can't get
that image out of my head of him. it's very hard. >> kellee: selena martinez is elijah's aunt. she
says elijah was bullied, and before this happened, he opened up to his mom and the school. >>
that he hated himself, that he did not feel loved. >> kellee: even about his suicidal ideations.
54

since then the district sent out a letter to parents letting them know what happened, and
providing services to kids at school. Martinez says she's glad counselors are available, but she
can't help but think what if. >> you should have had it for the kids that needed it. and that could
have helped them. i'm glad they have it here. i'm glad. but it's too late. >> kellee: she says she
hopes going forward all parents and schools will talk to their children. >> suicide is real, and we
think that it's not. and we just -- people want attention, and it's not. >> kellee: in fact,
specialists in the field of suicide prevention agree. these conversations need to be happening
much earlier in life. and that they could truly save lives. i think it's important to note that
teachers, along with school officials are considered mandatory reporters. but in the state of
okur, suicidal ideations are not a part of that mandate. coming up, if you want to have this
conversation, how do you get it started with a young child? we have tips for you that truly could
be life saving. those are coming up at 6:00. live in oregon city, kellee azar, katu news. >> deb:
kellee, thank you. >>> it is so important for kids to know and for adults to remind them, there is
always somebody to talk to. if you're feeling sad, bullied, or suicidal, you can call the oregon
youth line any time day or night, 877-968-8491. or text teen2 teen to 839863. we have these
numbers posted on our website, katu.com. along with other helpful resources.
News Radio KEX
Dec 12, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_80

holton elementary school confirms the parents that a 4th grade student did died of suicide
counselors in crisis response team members are available for staff and students Kelly Murray
with caucus count suicide Prevention tells Kate do it's important to watch for symptoms of
extreme grief and kids seeing church greater kills to seeing them it crier seeing them to
interment thing like Wow looks like you're feeling so big feelings of feeling Sat Mar says it's
important to help young children explain what they're feeling using simple terms they
understand she's starting the communication early life as vital and while may feel foreign to
talk to your child about suicide she said It's a very important conversation to half.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_81

people suffering from mental health will soon have a new resource available to them. u-s
regulators are setting up a new 3-digit number to reach a suicide prevention hotline. advocates
say it could help reduce the stigma associated with asking for help. it would essentially equate
mental health emergencies with fires, crimes, and other medical emergencies. similar to 9-1-1,
people will just need to dial 9- 8-8 once it's implemented. right now-- the national suicide
prevention lifeline uses a 10-digit number. it's the one you're seen on your screen. the callers
are routed to one of 163 crisis centers.

55

KEPR (CBS)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:08 PM

B_DEC_WASH_45

a fourth grader at holcomb elementary school in oregon city took his own life on tuesday
according to the school district. >> and action news reporter spoke with a suicide prevention
advocate about how was never too early to talk to children about mental health. >> are you
feeling so bad you are the about suicide? >> reporter: she lost her son to suicide. masterworks
to advocate for other parents to have our discussions with loved ones. >> we are now starting
to talk openly about mental illness. >> reporter: according to experts, people who died by
suicide, die from a disease like depression or a mental illness that became too much to handle.
>> when somebody says, i am thinking about killing myself, even if you think they are just trying
to be funny or they are being a drama queen, you need to take it seriously. >> reporter: on
tuesday a fourth grader at holcomb elementary school in oregon city took his own life, raising
the question, what age should you talk to your children about suicide and mental health? >> to
take their hand or put your arm around them and walk beside them. >> reporter: according to
experts we spoke with, for kindergarten age students it is best to explain the concept of dying.
for children ages 8-10 it is best to use short and truthful answers. for ages 11-14, you can
provide more information about what suicide means. but never give graphic details. if someone
says they are thinking about suicide, there are a few ways you can respond. >> first,
acknowledge either what they are saying or acknowledge you have seen a change in them. i see
this change and i am concerned about it. or, i acknowledge the way you're feeling. and i would
look to help you. the next thing is to show them that you care. that this is not a dealbreaker in
your relationship with them. your arm around them. hold their hand. and just say, we can work
through this together. i care about you unconditionally. and to tell someone. >>> the fcc has
approved a proposal for a new three-digit number as the suicide prevention hotline, hoping to
implement 988 a national suicide prevention hotline. within the next 18 months. until then, if
you or someone you know needs emotional support you can call the suicide prevention hotline
and it is on the bottom of the screen.
KAPP (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_46

the federal communications commission is moving ahead with plans to designate a three-digit
number to reach the national suicide prevention hotline the number is 9-8-8. the f-c-c
unanimously passed the proposal today. now it will be open for public comment. the
commission says the three-digit number echos 9-1-1 and will provide easier access to crisis
services. the c-d-c says teen suicides rates have trippled in recent years - causing more concern.
the proposal came out of the national suicide hotline improvement act - where officials studied
the effectness of the current hotline phone number. to install the new number, hold a public
awareness campaign and increase call centers... it will cost around 7-hundred- million over the
next two years... but the f-c-c says the benefits are likely to outweigh the initial costs.

56

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 7:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_47

simple way for people contemplating suicide get help CBS news correspondent Peter kang we
call 9.1 for emergencies and soon people may be able to dial just 3 digits for help from the
National suicide Prevention hotline the Senate Commerce Committee has approved a bill to
move the proposal forward the FCC says it would be expensive about 575 million dollars for the
first year but the agency is starting to take public comments and mental health officials say it
would be worth it for easier access to a hotline got more than two million calls last year that
number doubling since 2012 experts say suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the U.S.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:18 PM

B_DEC_WASH_48

There is now going to be a suicide prevention number nationwide that should be easy for most
of us remember I can imagine there is a single soul of this country who doesn't play this is a
good idea if you are considering doing yourself Harbor you're depressed he needs help there is
a lie right now you can call plea 100 to 7 crazy I'm a-okay talk act the hundreds whose Of them
3 talk about obama's most people when they are very depressed Werther considering some
seeing and hearing room so I could remember that number this is to me your number his
proposed not aimed at 8 8 just like I don't want to do be 9 $ number railroad Q2 where the
local counselors from suicide original folks are there to help you it will be easy to remember the
problem is the he wheels of the bureaucracy turn very holy Wash good could be at least a year
before he would approve of them even more time for the phone companies to install a it
certainly would be a huge help for people who suffer a crushing heartbreak of suicide and your
family are people I know it's appreciated.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 12, 2019 • 3:21 PM

B_DEC_WASH_49

snowmass county is working to help people struggling with different health issues new data
from the county health district shows suicide opioid misuse and youth mental health are among
the top health issues in snowmass county there are plans to develop a new center on suicide
prevention as for opioid abuse officials want to focus more on efforts on increasing the
awareness about the dangers of fentanyl.
News Radio KEX
Dec 12, 2019 • 3:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_82

the FCC is looking at a new way to save lives the FCC wants to add 9 aid aid as an emergency
lifeline to all phones for anyone considering taking their own life seem easy to remember threedigit number they can reach trained counselors the National suicide Prevention lifeline that
could really make the difference between life and death the F.C.C. chairman G advises the

57

Miami Dade suicide Prevention proposal could take more than a year to become reality in the
meantime 800 to 7 3 talk still gets anyone to one iPHONE counselor and field.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 12, 2019 • 6:04 PM

B_DEC_OREG_83

a 9-year-old is dead after taking his own life. tonight his family's pleading with other parents to
talk to their children. >> deb: what a difficult conversation, but it's one advocates say you
should have early on. katu's kellee azar is live in oregon city. so how do you start this
conversation? >> kellee: with honesty and age appropriate explanations. one of the biggest
things that advocates say you need to do with your children is to help them use words to
express their feelings. it's a parent's worst nightmare. a fun-loving, caring, 9-year-old boy now
gone after taking his own life. his aunt says elijah's death is highlghting the need for parents to
talk to their children. while for many of us, it may seem too young, martinez says it could make
a difference. >> suicide is real. and we think that it's not. and we just -- people want attention
and it's not. i wish i would have heard it. or have known sooner. >> kellee: while the school is
offering counseling to students, martinez says she wishes it was something available more
often, earlier on. galley murray works with clackamas county suicide prevention. she says while
the conversations are difficult, they are vital. >> we should be talking about from birth on, with
not only our young people, but with the parents or the adults who are caring for them. >>
kellee: but how? here are some tips she gave us. keep can it simple. use words to describe
feelings. help children verbalize when they are sad, marked or hurt. murray also says don't
make suicide a bad word. use it. a simple way to explain to kids why suicide happens, tell them
brains get sick, but sometimes unlike a cold, symptoms aren't visible. then let your kids ask
questions. and answer honesty. ly.honestly. the reason the family tells me they shared their
story today is out of the hope there will be change. that people will talk to their children and
that we'll all be more open when talking about suicide. they also hope that maybe they'll save
some lives. live in oregon city, kellee azar, katu news. >> steve: gotta have that conversation.
kellee, thank you.
>>> the fcc is moving ahead with plans to designate a three-digit number to reach the national
suicide prevention hotline. 9-8-8. it was approved today, but not in selves yesterday. fcc says
the three-digit number will make it easier for people to get the help they need and reduce the
stigma around suicide and mental health conditions. it's going to cost an estimated $570 million
for the first year, but they say the three-digit number will save lives. >> deb: here are some
really important numbers that are good to have written down in your home. the oregon youth
line number is 1-877-968-8491. that's where your kids can get peer-to-peer counseling over the
phone 24/7. they can also text "teen2teen" to 839-863. and new feed to talk to someone, call
the national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.

58

News Radio KEX
Dec 12, 2019 • 1:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_84

the FCC also looking at a new emergency number what's for Yeah please sells a fantastic idea
didn't the mud-walled to call buying it needed aid now the wave of bureaucracy moves so
slowly here could take the better part of a year ago role might but if it goes through if people
who were troubled considering suicide were hurting themselves some boy instead of calling the
number of its open right now is a 100 to 7 3 talk 800 to 7 3 o'clock T A.L. okay which you know
when you're feeling depressed what's hard number remember but 9 it's easy and that's what
they call being to do so that if you are and suicidal thoughts you need some emergency
counseling you put up the phone.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 12, 2019 • 11:06 PM

B_DEC_WASH_50

this is just tragic, a fourth grader in oregon city took his own life on tuesday. >> allison snow
spoke with advocates it's never too early to talk to children. >> are you feeling so bad you are
thinking of suicide. >> kimberly star lost her son to suicide and now she's an advocate. >> we're
talking openly about mental illness. >> people who die by suicide die from a disease that
became too much to handle. >> when someone says i'm thinking of killing myself, especially if
they are a drama queen take it seriously. >> a fourth grader took his own life raising the
question, what age should you talk to your children about suicide or mental health. >> walk
beside them. >> according to experts it's best to explain to them the continue suspect of dying,
for 8 to 10 use short and truthful answers, 11 to 14, you can provide more information about
what suicide means but never in graphic details. if someone says they are thinking about
suicide there's ways to respond. >> acknowledge what they are saying, or acknowledge a
change. or i acknowledge the way you're feeling. show them that you care, this is not a deal
breaker in the relationship with them. hold their hand, and say we can work through this
together. i care about you unconditionally and tell someone. the fcc approved a proposal for a
three-digit number for the suicide prevention hotline. until then if you or someone you know
needs emotional support call the hotline right there at the bottom of the screen.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 12, 2019 • 11:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_51

we have the concerns dealing with overpopulation right and we can only imagine what awaits
the elderly in this country with the people with young the thing there's overpopulation since
Canada legalize euthanasia twenty-sixteen the be at least 6007 49 cases of medically assisted
deaths with 8 and 3 dead in the first 6 months of legalization 2018 such as euthanasia figure
sorrow with over 3000 Canadians killed by other doctors and England a poll was taken showed
nearly half of the British population is concerned that the option of anyone's life was made
legal some they would feel pressured into killing themselves who are pressured to do that is
becoming increasingly evident suicide laws could leave them vulnerable people seeing suicide
as a treatment option and rain so there are others being see is the of suicide as an option to not
59

be a burden dollars borneo or bird on the environment it is disturbing thought it not a new one
every state this is a mass suicide as recurring motif in postwar science fiction
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_85

family and friends in oregon city are remembering a nine- year-old... who earlier this week
committed suicide. family members say elijah hauff was bullied..before taking his life. salina
martinez is elijah's aunt she says the 9 year-old was happy loving. . caring. . and funny. she
hopes going forward all parents and schools will talk to their children. the school district sent
out a letter to parents letting them know what happened and provided services to kids at
school. martinez says she's glad counselors are available. . but she can't help but think what if.
salina martinez // elijah's aunt "still shocked. i want it believe it's a dream. i can't get that image
out of my head of him. it's very sad stitch suicide is real. and we think that its not and that
people want attention and it's not." specialists in the field of suicide prevention agree
conversations need to be happening much earlier in life. . and that they could truly save lives.
and remember if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicide. there is help. you can call
the the national suicide prevention lifeline at anytime. the number is on your screen... 1-800273-8255. the federal communications commission is moving ahead with plans to designate a
three-digit number to reach the national suicide prevention hotline: 9-8-8 the commission
voted yesterday to approve the proposal, which is now open for public comment. the proposal
requires carriers to implement 9-8-8 as a national suicide prevention hotline within an 18month timeframe.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 4:03 PM

B_DEC_OREG_86

two officers with the portland police bureau talked a suicidal man off the vista ridge tunnel
bridge earlier this week. other officer shut down traffic on the breckenridge and below. they
stopped max trains as well. the back and forth went on for an hour in the pouring rain. a break
through came suddenly and at first alarmingly. the man who had been sitting with his feet
dangling over the edge, stood and turned grabbing the bridge railing. >> ultimately the good
thing happened and he came down and no one was injured and i hope he gets the help he
needs. >>> enhanced crisis intervention officers volunteer for additional training and frequently
respond to calls for people in a mental health cryings, crisis, something they say happens every
day in portland. if you or someone you know is suffering from a mental health crisis there is
help. you can call the national suicide hotline. you can also find resources online at suicide
prevention lifeline.org.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:44 AM

B_DEC_WASH_52

the fcc voting to set up a three digit suicide hotline similar to 9 1 1 in order to make it easier to
help people in crisis get help this is an effort to cut down on the stigma associated with mental
60

health and once it's fully implemented people will just need to dial nine 8 8 it's much shorter
than the current national suicide prevention number.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_53

yesterday the FCC voted to begin the months-long process of creating a three-digit number to
reach the National suicide Prevention lifeline 9.8 S.E.C. chair as a prize I believe 9 teenage could
help it has an echo of 9.1 a number we all know and awareness of this resource should make a
real difference when those in crisis the lifeline the current number is 102.3 talk which rats
callers 263 crisis centers where counselors answered over two million calls last year.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:33 AM

B_DEC_OREG_87

actual word suicide rather than making it seem like a bad worked. >>> and commit these
numbers to memory, 988. those three digittings could be easier to remember than a nine-digit
number. the idea is to make it easier for anyone suffering a mental health cryings to get help
quickly. youin the meantime there are other ways to get some help if you, your child or
someone you know is struggling. you can see a list of numbers or text our call. we have them up
on your screen. and if you prefer to talk to someone online you can visit suicide prevention.org.
we have easy access available on our website.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 13, 2019 • 12:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_54

just like calling 911 for help, the fcc is moving forward with the three-digit number for a suicide
prevention line the unanimously approved the number 988 that is not in service yet but the fcc
has to open it up to public comment before it can be official. the process can take several
months. remember that if you or someone you know ever needs help, you can reach out to 802
73 top. you can text the word talk to seven for 17 for one.

KBNZ
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:39 AM

B_DEC_OREG_88

the "wall street journal" reports the fcc approved making 988 a national suicide prevention
hotline number. last year, congress ordered the fcc to study creating a simpler dialing code for
mental health crisis. the new number will replace the ten-digit national suicide prevention
lifeline. calls to 988 will be routed to nearby crisis centers. the government's action comes as
suicide rates have increased across the u.s. over the past few decades. >> i believe 988 could
help. it has an echo of 911, a number we all know. and the resource should make a real
61

difference when those in crisis need lia lifeline. >> the fcc still needs to decide whether to order
the phone companies to update their systems.at th process could take upon 18 months.
AM 860
Dec 13, 2019 • 7:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_89

a 39 year-old man was arrested a voice and charged with kidnapping and Oregon teen from
junction city Robert William however he was identified as a person of interest and when they
searched his home they found the teen who had been reported missing since December 7th
have eventually admitted driving from boise dejection city where he met the teen drove back
to his voice House the investigation continues and more charges are possible the girl is now
Thankfully safely back home a 4th grader at Hook Elementary school in Oregon City died by
suicide on Tuesday tragically organ city school District superintendent Larry did way posted a
notice to families about the death on Wednesday said the boys say gave the District permission
to share his cause of death he also said the psychologist and members of the crisis response
team would be at the school this week to support students schools also holding an event this
morning for parents about how to talk to young children about death.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 13, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_90

parents and kids in oregon city are dealing with a tragedy today, a fourth grader died by suicide
wednesday night. the student attended holcomb elementary, and died at home. the school
held a meeting with parents today, to talk to them about how to talk to their kids about death
and suicide. psychologists and members of a crisis response team will be at the school this
week to support students. >> people have an opportunity to explore their feelings and talk
about those and process those feelings. they can really see some hope on the horizon. we can
save a lot of lives. >> westbrook says oregon has a statewide youth suicide program that can
help even very young kids. please reach out to lines for life, or the national suicide prevention
lifeline, or call 911 if you have any concerns.

62

News Radio KEX
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_91

our top story the death of the prosecutor in a domestic violence case that ended with the
murder of 50 killed in Vancouver says law needs to change we're avoid tells Kate to she tried to
set bail for q two million $ but the judge reduced the Hill was released and killed his wife but it
says domestic violence cases need to be treated differently I I would like to see bail in domestic
violence cases being treated separate from Valeant all other cases Boyd says all of the signs
were there the key and peele would take violent action and tiffany Hill feared for her life he'll
go shot and killed himself following a police pursuit.
KTVL (CBS)
Dec 13, 2019 • 5:02 PM

B_DEC_OREG_92

he climb county grand jury since last shooting of klamath falls man was justified under the law.
he was cleared of any wrongdoing in his back on the job. the district attorney says robert
faulkner one suicide by cop when he came out of the bushes during a domestic violence call.
the officer shot him because he saw what looked like a handgun, but it was determined to be in
yourself bb gun. fulcher survived is facing a jury trial on menacing charges.
Fox 12 Plus
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_93

the federal communication s commission voted to create a three-digit national crisis emergency
phone line -- just like 9-1-1. it will take about a year-and-a-half to set up the hotline which will
be 9-8-8. Trained counselors will take the call. right now -- you will still need to call the 1-800
number. just like 9-1-1 -- time is of the essence -- something 9-8-8 is aimed at helping in a time
of immediate crisis. 16:16:00:19 (("we're super excited about 988 mostly because we think it
will go a long way in helping people who are in crisis, particularly around suicide to reach out
and get the help they need.")) :1116:16:24:50 (("1- 800-273-8255, that's a long ways to get to
help, so just like we have 9-1-1 we need 9-8-8 so people really have that immediate access."))
:11 the proposal, however, does not include an option to text the hotline for help.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_DEC_WASH_55

yesterday the federal communications Commission voted to begin the months-long process of
creating a three-digit number to reach the National suicide Prevention lifeline 9.8 FCC chair as
he prize I believe 9 88 could help it has an echo of 9.1 a number we all know an awareness of
this resource should make a real difference when those in crisis need a lifeline the current
number is one 800 to 7 3 talk with Trout callers 263 crisis centers where counselors answered
over two million calls last year.

63

AM 860
Dec 13, 2019 • 7:00 AM

B_DEC_OREG_94

a 4th grader at holton elementary school in Oregon City died by suicide on Tuesday tragically
organ city school District superintendent Larry the way posted a notice to families about the
death on Wednesday said the boy's family gave the District permission to share his cause of
death he also said the psychologist and members of the crisis response team would be at the
school this week to support students schools also holding an event this morning for parents
about how to talk to young children about death and suicide.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:34 AM

B_DEC_OREG_95

the fcc is making it easier for people to reach the national suicide prevention lifeline. the
commission agreed to use a three-digit number, 988 it's meant to replace the current 10 digit
number making it easier and faster to get help. but this new number change could take months
to actually take effect. for now, if you are someone you know needs help, this is the number to
call. 1-800, 273, 8255. there is always someone available to talk 24/7.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_96

in the wake of this week's tragic suicide of an Oregon city 4th greater we check in with Blinds
for life they launched the crisis line for you 20 years ago they say the number of callers has
really increased in the past 5 years the director Emily closures says they take 18000 calls from
kids in crisis each year she says there are a couple of reasons the pressure is much more intense
these days and kids are learning it's okay to reach out for help helping them and and dogs
should be talking about emotional but one thing I want that means b-roll then see what I said
what do you do with it they feel like I work through that she says her team validates the
person's feelings encourages the connection and helps the person problems solved to reach an
agreement of safety if the risk is too high a lifeline dispatches.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:15 PM

B_DEC_WASH_56

right now you have another clown noses so a stir this is about suicide and specifically a suicide
hotline because suicides do spike at this time of year right and the S.E.C. has is they're moving
ahead with this plan to get 8 National suicide Prevention hotline that's 3 digit number right
because we are conditioned to dial 9.1 Yeah in an emergency and so they are saying that over
the next it could be it like 15 to 18 months they're guessing implement 9.8 not I'm among the
9.8 and that will be a national suicide hotline last year Congress passed it Trump signed into law
the National suicide hotline improvement act so they've been studying this kind of thing and
then day they have official lee Yes isis officially made this recommendation for August right of
this year hoping that that they get that and it's it's going to cost dad 5 570 million both
64

surprising first year ago two digits the House Yeah it's a little it sound little pricey but really this
is something that that I think is is important and when you're talking about folks are dealing
with something like a depression and suicide chested the sick the smallest things impossible to
do right and so I am not going to look at this 100 review accent right 100 flowers something
Yeah exactly I want to examine also so they actually the S.E.C. in their report to Congress where
they where they talked about their cost estimates said that some that benefits of this action are
quite likely to outweigh the costs tonight I could agree more from one thing it does not include
it is a text option good idea we think I think is a good idea considering deal even talk on the
phone anymore exactly you don't want an emoji system for the did not know that a lot more
going on I worry about pranks in that situation I don't trust it now I don't forget to pick up the
phone and just emojis but in general but there are still groups you know that that deal
especially with younger folks younger folks are more inclined to be text friendly so you've got
the crisis text line the teen line and the Trevor Project which is specifically for lgbt Q you so just
something that some good news about the sad things something nice in Washington Yes I
would say that if you're if you're dealing with this kind of stuff a you're having a hard time this
holiday season the National suicide Prevention hotline is one 802.3 talk so that that exists right
now and if if you're having a hard time talk to somebody because people do care.
KTVL (CBS)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_97

klamath county grand terrace as last month shooting of a klamath falls man was justified under
the law. police sergeant murray smith was cleared of any wrongdoing in his back on the job.
tonight's top story at six. robert faulkner wanted suicide by cop when he came out of the
bushes during a domestic violence call in the 300 block last month. officer shot him and he said
what happened what look like him can. it was determined to be in airsoft bb gun. faulkner
survived in his facing a jury trial.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:42 AM

B_DEC_WASH_57

good morning and welcome back. a 4th grader at holcom elementary school took his own life
according to the school district. it's never too early to talk about mental health. advocates say
it's best to explain to them the concept of dying. for children ages 8 to 10 the best is to use
short answers and for ages 11 to 14 you can provide more information about what suicide
means but never give graphic details. >> but when somebody says i'm thinking about killing
myself even if you think they're trying to be funny or they're being a drama queen, you need to
take it seriously because people don't just go around talking that way. >> if you were a or a
loved one need someone to talk to we have a suicide prevention online at keprtv.com.

65

KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:26 PM

B_DEC_OREG_98

deb: it's the chance he never thought he'd get. a local man with the opportunity to start over
tonight after two police officers talked him down from a portland bridge. >> steve: both officers
signed up for additional training through the bureau's enhanced crisis intervention team, giving
them very important skills to help people in mental health crises. that chance came earlier this
week. it was just before 6:30 p.m. wednesday when the call came in. a man sent a text to
relatives saying he was on a bridge and ready to jump. he didn't say which bridge, but police
were able to ping the man's cell phone and determine he was on the vista bridge, infamous for
years as the suicide bridge. >> when i first athrived was a man standing on the rail of the vista
bridge. there's a lot to take in in the beginning. initially i just tried to chat with him, build a little
rapport with him. >> steve: officer david arnot was joined by michael hastings. he would take
what's called the coaching position, while he talked with the man, hastings gathered
information. while he worked to establish a dialogue other officers shut down traffic on the
bridge and below and stopped the max trains. the back and forth went on for an hour in the
pouring rain. >> we'll work as long as it takes to try to get a means to an end that is positive for
the person, get them the help they need e we're just the police. we're not mental health
specialitieses or doctors. we explain that to people. >> steve: a breakthrough came suddenly
and at first alarmingly. the man month been sitting with his feet dangling over the abyss, stood
and turned, grab can the railing. >> we're like oh, no, what's he thinking about doing? and he
just started climbing back up over. i'm like, whoa, hold on. we've got the fire bureau here, we
could facilitate you doing that safely. >> steve: he made it back over the fence to safety. >>
ultimately the good thing happened and he came down and no one was injured. and i hope he
gets the help he needs. >> steve: having a mental health first aid kit can be as simple as
programming this number in your foafnlt it's the number for the national suicide prevention
lifeline. 1-800-273-talk or 8255.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 13, 2019 • 8:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_58

I think it's important to talk about he said mostly Doug things don't happen to like that all those
caught allies say the ground in Washington drain the swamp my right now you have another
clown noses so a stir this is about suicide and specifically a suicide hotline because suicides do
spike at this time of year right and the S.E.C. has is they're moving ahead with this plan to get 8
National suicide Prevention hotline that's 3 digit number right because we are conditioned to
dial 9.1 Yeah in an emergency and so they are saying that over the next it could be it like 15 to
18 months they're guessing implement 9.8 not I'm among the 9.8 and that will be a national
suicide hotline last year Congress passed it Trump signed into law the National suicide hotline
improvement act so they've been studying this kind of thing and then day they have official lee
Yes isis officially made this recommendation for August right of this year hoping that that they
get that and it's it's going to cost dad 5 570 million both surprising first year ago two digits the
House Yeah Yeah it's it's a little it sound little pricey but really this is something that that I think
is is important and when you're talking about folks are dealing with something like a depression
66

and suicide chested the sick the smallest things impossible to do right and so I am not going to
look at this 100 review accent right 100 flowers something Yeah exactly I want to examine also
so they actually the S.E.C. in their report to Congress where they where they talked about their
cost estimates said that some that benefits of this action are quite likely to outweigh the costs
tonight I could agree more from one thing it does not include it is a text option good idea we
think I think is a good idea considering deal even talk on the phone anymore exactly you don't
want an emoji system for the did not know that a lot more going on I worry about pranks in
that situation I don't trust it now I don't forget to pick up the phone and just emojis but in
general but there are still groups you know that that deal especially with younger folks younger
folks are more inclined to be text friendly so you've got the crisis text line the teen line and the
Trevor Project which is specifically for lgbt Q you so just something that some good news about
the sad things something nice in Washington Yes I would say that if you're if you're dealing with
this kind of stuff a you're having a hard time this holiday season the National suicide Prevention
hotline is one 802.3 talk so that that exists right now and if if you're having a hard time talk to
somebody because people do care about I've been already test fun Yes I have a Yeah Let's have
fun I'm ready to have that and I mean we'll listen to some tunes.
KONG-SEA
Dec 13, 2019 • 1:42 PM

B_DEC_WASH_59

u.s. regulators have voted to set up a three-digit suicide prevention number. like 911. it will be
988. they want to make it easier for people to get help and reduce the stigma associated with
mental illness. the sec says it will take a couple of months to implement the number again, 988
will soon be the go to call number. right now, the national suicide prevention lifeline uses one
800 273 talk.
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 6:49 PM

B_DEC_OREG_99

a new suicide prevention hotline will soon make seeking help for mental health emergencies as
easy as dialing 9-1-1. anna kooiman explains. ## # according to the world health organization,
approximately one million people die from suicide each year. lyglobal's, thatea one death every
40 seconds. and the agencyredie cts th nu ermbil wl increase to one every 20 seconds by t2020.ano try evd prisent th growing epidemic, the federal communications commission voted
Thursday to establish a 3-diongit phere numb - nine, eight. eight - to help those in distress. i
pa"asays: nyone who calls 988 would be routed to the established national suicide prevention
lifeline where they can be assisted by trained counselors." currently, the national suicide
prevention lifeline uses a 10-digit number... where last year, 2-point-2 million calls were routed
to 163 crisis centers.oon, calling 9-8-8 will be just as easy as dialin1.g 9-1-ay pai ss: "i believe
988 could help. it h as an echo of 911, a number we all know. and awareness of this resource
should make a real difference when those in crisis need a lifeline." federal regulators are
hoping, once implemented, the new dedicated number will not only be easier to remember...
but will also help reduce the stigma associated with mental health. brinton says: "i think that it
will have a major difference because it will normalize it. it will say that just like we treat any
67

other emergency, we would be treating the emergencies of the mind." the process of
establishing the 9-8-8 system is expected to take months. the f-c-c has proposed giving all
service providers 18 months to accommodate the new number. in new york, anna kooiman, fox
news.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 13, 2019 • 4:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_100

family and friends in oregon city are remembering a nine- year-old... who earlier this week
committed suicide. family members say elijah hauff was bullied..before taking his life. salina
martinez is elijah's aunt she says the 9 year-old was happy loving. . caring. . and funny. she
hopes going forward all parents and schools will talk to their children. the school district sent
out a letter to parents letting them know what happened and provided services to kids at
school. martinez says she's glad counselors are available. . but she can't help but think what if.
salina martinez // elijah's aunt "still shocked. i want it believe it's a dream. i can't get that image
out of my head of him. it's very sad stitch suicide is real. and we think that its not and that
people want attention and it's not." specialists in the field of suicide prevention agree
conversations need to be happening much earlier in life. . and that they could truly save lives.
and remember if you or anyone you know is struggling with suicide. there is help. you can call
the the national suicide prevention lifeline at anytime. the number is on your screen... 1-800273-8255. the federal communications commission is moving ahead with plans to designate a
three-digit number to reach the national suicide prevention hotline: 9-8-8 the commission
voted yesterday to approve the proposal, which is now open for public comment. the proposal
requires carriers to implement 9-8-8 as a national suicide prevention hotline within an 18month timeframe.
News Radio KEX
Dec 13, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_101

the deputy prosecutor in a domestic violence case that ended with the murder of Tiffany killing
Vancouver's says law needs to change we're aboard tells Kate to she tried to set bail for killing
hilla two million $ but the judge refused to the Hill was released and killed his wife but it says
domestic violence cases need to be treated differently I would like to seek bail in domestic
violence cases being treated separate from Valeant all other cases Boyd says all of the signs
were there the key and peele would take violent action and tiffany he'll feared for her life he'll
kill shot and killed himself following a police pursuit.
KTVL (CBS)
Dec 14, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_102

klamath county said the shooting of a man was justified under the law. the sergeant was
cleared of any wrongdoing and is back on the job. the district attorney says robert falkner
wanted suicide by cop when he came out of the bushes during a colorado avalanche call.
domestic violence call. he is facing a jury trial on menacing charges. >> a shooting took the life
68

of a man a possibility indication of seven defense. he's accused of killing nicolas. the letter
penned states he was confronted by the alleged shooter prior to the incident. he's frustrated by
the lack of attention he was given when a. thing to give this information to the sheriff office. we
reached out to the author of the letter who declined our request.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 14, 2019 • 11:08 PM

B_DEC_OREG_103

the proposed number is 988, which is a lot easier to remember, than the current suicide hot
line. ron wydenen and lines for life for years. and he says, a three digit number like this is vital
for saving lives. painful choice, where they are contemplating ending their life. the need to have
a compassionate thoughtful and knowledgeable voice on the other end of the line means
everything. having easy access to professional help.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 14, 2019 • 10:41 PM

B_DEC_OREG_104

according to the world health organization, approximately one million people die from suicide
each year. globally, that's one death eve 40 seconds and the agency predicts the number will
increase to one every 20 seconds b 20-20. to try and prevent the growing epidemic, the federal
communications commission voted Thursday to establish a 3-digit phone number - nine, eight.
eight - to help those in distress pai says: "anyone who calls 988 would be routed to the
established national suicide prevention lifeline wher they can be assisted by traine counselors
currently, the national suicide prevention lifeline uses a 10-dig number... where last year 2point-2 million call were routed to 163 crisis centers. soon, calling 9-8-8 will be just as easy a
dialing 9-1-1. pai says: "i believe 988 could help. it has an echo of 911, a number we all know.
and awareness of this resource should make a real difference when those in crisis need a
lifeline." federal regulators are hoping, once implemented, the new dedicated numb will not
only be easier to remember... but will also help reduce the stigma associated with mental
health. brinton says: "i think that it will have a major difference because it will normalize it. it
will say that just like we treat any other emergency, we should be treating the emergencies of
the mind the process of establishing the 9-8-8 system is expected to take months. the f-c-c has
proposed giving all service providers 18 months t accommodate the new number. in New York,
anna kooiman, fox news.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 14, 2019 • 9:45 AM

B_DEC_WASH_60

officers work in state prisons under intense stress and trauma and they often want to admit the
toll it takes is jimmy Jenkins reports remember station cave is easy in Phoenix perot looking
weak prevents many officers from dealing with serious mental health issues a common theme
emerges as Dr. Shannon Henderson flips through a box of plaques and commendations
awarded to her husband Jonathan rookie of the month supervisor of the month Correctional
officer of the year when she was particularly proud of the couple met while working in an
69

Indiana prison before moving to Arizona several years ago Shannon is a psychologist who now
serves as the clinical director at the Arizona Department of juvenile corrections she says
Jonathan was often asked to deal with dangerous situations on the job because he was good
under pressure he had on him away with inmates he was very good at deescalating some pretty
violent or potentially violent situations but frequent exposure to the daily drama of prison life
took a toll I I knew it was bad I knew she had a lot to work through new there are a lot of things
he didn't tell me she said he started seeing a therapist but after 8 months Jonathan cancelled
his appointments and then a month later he died by suicide is common among Correctional
officers the 2018 study by U.C. berkeley revealed many Correctional officers don't get help
more than 7 in 10 respondents said they hadn't told anyone about their suicidal thoughts
clinton roberts things that's partly because other people simply can't relate to what correction
officers go through you'll see things most normal people will never see in their life in his 15
years as a Correctional officer robert says he's witnessed countless acts of brutality stabbings
assaults and his own close call several years ago I turn around and there's 6 inmates they got
behind me that I didn't see it behind me and I feel my heart dropped in my stomach another
officer had his back but it still haunts him I know I have PTSD because I continuously he was
having dreams of getting stabbed Roberts has refused counseling from surge or the critical
incident response team a group of ABC employees specially trained in helping staff through
traumatic events it's common for correction officers to downplay traumas they experience on
the job because they want to keep their respective their colleagues joke laura is executive
director of the Arizona police Association people don't get help because errors certain fears
that ally going to be viewed this weekend my going to be viewed as unable to perform my job
he says the nature of the job requires an assertive domineering personality corrections officers
are expected to be in control and in charge and and resolve problems we're not expected to
have problems that was a significant piece for us and saying Hey this happens this happens or
most respected of Pierce and we're going to talk about it kelly Rask is an administrator with the
oregon Department of Corrections which has been studying Correctional officer mental health
since 2012 she says they encourage the department's leadership to speak out about their own
mental health challenges they also offer a 10 week program that teaches ways to cope there's a
lot of effort going on to change culture said they It there it's norman to move to and to seek
count Shannon Henderson is devoted to changing things in arizona she says that starts by
acknowledging the problem that there's a problem in any industry that there is a problem with
the culture she says the solution is promoting an environment where officers like Jonathan will
feel safe asking for help.
B_DEC_OREG_105

KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 14, 2019 • 8:30 AM

now to terrifying moments on southwest portland's vista bridge. a suicidal man was standing on
the rail ready to jump. this morning we're hearing from the two portland police officers who
were able to talk him down. this all happened wednesday evening when officers davidarnot
arrived the first thing he did was try to build appear port with the man. he was joined by crisis
intervention officer michael hastings. the two spoke with the man for about an hour in the
pouring rain until suddenly there was a shift. >> all sudden he started climbing back up over.
70

hold on, you know, we've got the fire bureau here, we can facilitate you doing that. >> luckily
that man made it back over the fence safely. officers hastings andarnot say this is unfortunately
an all too common call. they told us listening and making a personal connection made all the
difference. >> 988. those three digits are easier to remember than a full ten-digit phone
number. the ftc is recommending that number for the national suicide hotline making it easier
to get help quickly. oregon senator ron wyden has been working with the fcc on this for years.
he says an easy three-digit number could mean the difference between life and death. >> that
choice, that incredibly painful choice where they are literally contemplating ending their life,
the need to have a compassionate, thoughtful and knowledgeable voice on the other end of the
line means everything. >> unfortunately, it will be a while before this service is up and running.
it's expected to be available in 2021 but in the meantime, there are other ways to get help if
you, your child or someone else that you know is struggling. there's a list of numbers on your
screen right now. you can also visit suicidepreventionlifeline.org. all these resources and more
are available at katu.com.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 14, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_106

today marks seven years since one of the deadliest mass shootings in modern u-s history. 7
years ago adam lanza opened fire on the sandy hook elementary school in Newtown,
Connecticut. 20 children-- all six or seven- years old-- were killed. six adults also were
murdered... including three teachers... a principal... a therapist and a psychologist. lanza shot
and killed himself after the rampage. in 2014-- the families of nine of the children killed and one
teacher who survived the attack filed a wrongful death suit against remington-- which makes
the rifle used in the shooting.
KREM (CBS)
Dec 14, 2019 • 9:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_61

u.s. federal regulators are setting up a new three digit number for a suicide prevention hotline
to make it easier to get help and reduce the stigma associated with mental health. once it's
implemented people will just need to dial 9 8 8 similar to calling 9 1 1 for emergencies or 3 1 1
for city services currently the national suicide prevention lifeline uses a 10 digit number 800 273
talk.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 14, 2019 • 9:45 AM

B_DEC_WASH_62

officers work in state prisons under intense stress and trauma and they often want to admit the
toll it takes is jimmy Jenkins reports remember station cave is easy in Phoenix perot looking
weak prevents many officers from dealing with serious mental health issues a common theme
emerges as Dr. Shannon Henderson flips through a box of plaques and commendations
awarded to her husband Jonathan rookie of the month supervisor of the month Correctional
officer of the year when she was particularly proud of the couple met while working in an
71

Indiana prison before moving to Arizona several years ago Shannon is a psychologist who now
serves as the clinical director at the Arizona Department of juvenile corrections she says
Jonathan was often asked to deal with dangerous situations on the job because he was good
under pressure he had on him away with inmates he was very good at deescalating some pretty
violent or potentially violent situations but frequent exposure to the daily drama of prison life
took a toll I I knew it was bad I knew she had a lot to work through new there are a lot of things
he didn't tell me she said he started seeing a therapist but after 8 months Jonathan cancelled
his appointments and then a month later he died by suicide suicide is common among
Correctional officers the 2018 study by U.C. berkeley revealed many Correctional officers don't
get help more than 7 in 10 respondents said they hadn't told anyone about their suicidal
thoughts clinton roberts things that's partly because other people simply can't relate to what
correction officers go through you'll see things most normal people will never see in their life in
his 15 years as a Correctional officer robert says he's witnessed countless acts of brutality
stabbings assaults and his own close call several years ago I turn around and there's 6 inmates
they got behind me that I didn't see it behind me and I feel my heart dropped in my stomach
another officer had his back but it still haunts him I know I have PTSD because I continuously he
was having dreams of getting stabbed Roberts has refused counseling from surge or the critical
incident response team a group of ABC employees specially trained in helping staff through
traumatic events it's common for correction officers to downplay traumas they experience on
the job because they want to keep their respective their colleagues joke laura is executive
director of the Arizona police Association people don't get help because errors certain fears
that ally going to be viewed this weekend my going to be viewed as unable to perform my job
he says the nature of the job requires an assertive domineering personality corrections officers
are expected to be in control and in charge and and resolve problems we're not expected to
have problems that was a significant piece for us and saying Hey this happens this happens or
most respected of Pierce and we're going to talk about it kelly Rask is an administrator with the
oregon Department of Corrections which has been studying Correctional officer mental health
since 2012 she says they encourage the department's leadership to speak out about their own
mental health challenges they also offer a 10 week program that teaches ways to cope there's a
lot of effort going on to change culture said they It there it's norman to move to and to seek
count Shannon Henderson is devoted to changing things in Arizona she says that starts by
acknowledging the problem that there's a problem in any industry that there is a problem with
the culture she says the solution is promoting an environment where officers like Jonathan will
feel safe asking for help.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 14, 2019 • 8:05 AM

B_DEC_OREG_107

Mayer Ted Wheeler said yesterday he believes part of the blame for Sunday's fatal police
shooting lies with and a broken mental health system that shooting involved 51 year-old kobe
Henrikson the past year Henrikson parents say he had been in and out of mental health hospital
without receiving permanent care he needed they also said he had been suicidal for over a year
Wheeler said he's begun to work with state and County mental health authorities to find ways
to improve the region's mental health system which he said has failed individual like Henrikson
72

authorities continue to investigate the police shooting Wheeler ask for the public's patience as
details continue to emerge and in a story that aired at this time yesterday we incorrectly
identified the city where southwest Washington congresswoman jamie her about their lives.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 14, 2019 • 5:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_63

we turn now to another aspect of gun violence that we often don't talk about and here we're
going to focus on first responders in the U.S. police officers and firefighters are now more likely
to die by suicide than in the line of duty that's according to data from the regimen family
Foundation which focuses on mental health research and yet there's no comprehensive
government-wide effort to collect information about suicide among first responders a
bipartisan group of U.S. senators has introduced a bill that would give this task to the fbi it's an
effort to begin to understand the scope of the problem among first responders one of the
sponsors of the bill catherine cortez masto she is a Democrat from Nevada earlier this week I
visited her offices on Capitol Hill to ask will tell us more about her thinking on the subject I
started a conversation by asking her why the bill makes reporting on suicide voluntary among
departments and not mandatory many of our law enforcement if they do have emotional
trauma because of the serious nature of what you're dealing with in their professional careers
good when you stigmatize with mental health issues which to me we've got to change tack that
getting help for mental health issues a bad thing so so the purposes here to make a voluntary
but it also doesn't collect the P.I.N. the personal identifying information that law enforcement
officer that's why I'm asking you why it is the Department required to deliver this information
because you're taking Out personal identifying information and it would seem that by definition
if you're only offering opportunity people were willing to give you that information shore large
departments like new York work will participate but smaller Department where they may be
equally pressing issue might not know why would you compel the two agencies to his ambition
to have to compel them after talking with the police chief's chair of our urban rural areas this is
an issue they want to know what's I cannot tell you how many people after hearing about this
will have reached out from law enforcement community.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 14, 2019 • 5:50 PM

B_DEC_WASH_64

protected but were understanding the scope of the problem so we can address it it you know I
see you this is very polarized political moment and there are people who make the argument
that part of the reason that law enforcement is under stress that they're not getting the respect
it they are owed by the society at large me how do you keep this issue from being another issue
that gets politicized either like it's like you're either on one team where the other team it's
either you're on black lives matter team around you're on team in a Blue lives matter and how
you should focus on what you consider to be the substance of this as opposed to letting it get
caught up in another car booth they vote on both I think you focus on accountability that's
necessary to hold police officers accountable when you cross that line absolutely and I also
know that we can also bring resources to help law enforcement officers it when they're dealing
73

with the stressors of the job the mental health better relate better emotional trauma center
PTSD I think he can do both I also think we have to kind of recognize that there's also a
distinction between our law enforcement and urban and rural areas because urban areas quite
often have more resources to bring to the table to support law enforcement but our rural areas
do not and so there there's that much more stressed intact is before we let you go do you have
a sense of what would make a difference I understand that your focus here as you want to get
to the bottom of this you want to understand what's happening to whom this is happening and
why this is happening what are the triggers do have a sense though what a better world would
look like when it comes to this how you know you've succeeded yet some sense now I
understand you want to dictate solutions but do you have a sense of but you think based on
your experience with this issue what would make a difference I can tell you we we have in
Nevada right now we have some peer to peer counseling programs that help and really I think is
beneficial it's it's of their model programs because when you have a peer to peer counseling
that means that your peers online enforcement reaching out to you to work with you to help
you through this issue I think there is somebody that is still with the emotional trauma that's
more willing to talk to appear in there to pursue a professional be kind of stigmatized I think
those are best practices that we can learn from the for we go down the path of modeling them
across the country we need to understand the scope of the problem and the deficit problem
before we can put resources into those types of programs that's Senator Catherine Cortez
Masto Democrat from Nevada she's kind enough to host us in her office on Capitol Hill senator
thank you so much for having us thank you and we do want to say that if you are in crisis or if
you know someone who is please call the suicide Prevention lifeline at 102.3 8 to 5 5.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 15, 2019 • 7:25 PM

B_DEC_WASH_65

I want to share something with you that I had not planned but I just feel that I wanted to know
where I stand on because I owe so much to you as readers and the members of my community
and friends about a year and a half ago my brother Dan Dixon Tempest hung himself we had a
conversation and I hope you don't mind me sharing this but to me this answers part of the
question can no longer being about anger has to be about healing how we have to go deeper
and where do we go to find the strength to not look away from all that is breaking our hearts I
want to share this story Hugh about 3 months before dance death by suicide he calls me and
said and I have the road and I hate if there are those who experienced this I think we all have
on some level near far I understand if you need to leave the he told Lee that in his language she
said and you're in denial it's over any talk about the share he talked about himself and I
remember saying damn I will never give up on you know like ever give up on the and then I
remember him saying I do think I can get better he had suffered for decades from depression
and addiction he said Terry I'm an addict but I'm not a bad person it was probably one of the
most meaningful conversation I've ever happened to and then he sent Knox if need be I never
do it And I can't I was there for all of the big moments I was not there for the small I can tell you
as a conservationist all my life the Hue Press when I saw that well I could help save the species
or piece of land when I couldn't even helped my brother resolution community suicide has

74

teeth and doesn't like it go 9 remaining brother Hank the youngest of us in my mind she's about
soft he's wiser than all of…
News Radio KEX
Dec 15, 2019 • 6:50 PM

B_DEC_OREG_108

a government agency is proposing an easier way for people to remember a National suicide
Prevention hotline more from NBC'S and field the S.E.C. wants to add 9 aid aid is an emergency
lifeline to all phones for anyone considering taking 0 was a few easy to remember three-digit
number they can reach trained counselors at the National suicide Prevention lifeline that could
really make the difference between life and death the S.E.C. chairman A.G. advises mind aid
suicide Prevention proposal could take more than a year to become reality.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 15, 2019 • 6:40 AM

B_DEC_OREG_109

federal regulators much like they've done with the 9.1 system are setting up a 3 digits suicide
hotline number in order to make it easier to reduce the stigma Associated with mental health
people just need to dial 9 88 seek help once implemented currently the National suicide
Prevention lifeline uses a 10 digit number 800 to 7 3 talk callers around to one of 163 crisis
centers were Calpers answer to point two million calls last year the federal communications
Commission says there is overwhelming support for three-digit number and an FCC approval
vote has started the months-long process to make that happen suicide rates have increased
across the U.S. over the past two decades.
News Radio KEX
Dec 15, 2019 • 9:55 AM

B_DEC_OREG_110

Let's just say there are some groups and in Facebook once called the heart and soul suicides
support group one his one's survivors of suicide bombs another one to loved ones suicide
support groups so if you're looking for support group on you can talk to other people who have
been through similar situations that may be a place and all because you can certainly start your
own blog you can just fire up the website you go to blog Dotcom you can do that you can start a
your own Facebook group and invite other people to join and but I think if you're looking for an
immediate sense of community that you can do that another idea that I have for you is for you
to write a book writing new of okay and and put it out there you know what I'm not saying that
any book has to be a 100 pages to it could be 50 patrons it up it could you know 10 things about
surviving geared for your child suicide that you need to know now you can add that is not ideal
piece you have valuable Intel and insight then I don't have things that I am and that I pray I
never have in fact I think but if that situation is people go online and they are seeking answers
and they think support and they seek help so I want you to just think about everything that I
just ahead see how that feels in your gut deep down inside and then if you want me to help you
take it to the next step I will certainly do that and I'm gonna give you my private email address

75

we're going to do this offline because if you want something I live if you want some help to get
this out there I'm definitely gonna be that person.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 16, 2019 • 12:40 PM

B_DEC_OREG_111

I'm not answering that question and there's a reason I'm dodging the question it's usually
because I think if I give the answer then I'll give up the argument well in this case if you think
and if a man has vowed never to be taken alive by the police he is then add gunpoint with his
hands up and he reaches for an inside jacket pocket the does contain a gun what is the
appropriate thing for the police officer to assume about what he's planning to do unparalleled
in the video you clearly in and saying hail you don't want to tell everybody Period get hit by a
rubber ball was cited in the way down is reaching the final audit and erratic know he ran to first
for the 4th set out his hands in the air but when he saw the police pointing guns at him he put
his hands in the air listen I've looked at that video a 1000 times it's really clear what happened
he had vowed I will never be taken into custody alive and it was very clear that if the police
were about to take him into custody they clearly have the drop on him that he was going to
reach for a gun and tried to shoot his way out and I don't I don't think anybody has the right to
do that so no I'm not going to talk about the boy Finicum all day long it is it is a terrible situation
that the man decided to kill himself.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 16, 2019 • 12:50 PM

B_DEC_OREG_112

we have talked about LaVoy Finicum so many times in the last few years somebody brought his
name up today do you have anything new to add to this conversation about avoid Finicum and
his suicide by cop give what you're saying is not true it's simple all you have to do is watch the
video what happened all what is the one who's just because we're going to be up against the
clock I want to get right to the part I said it wasn't true what is the untruth thing I said we're or
if he tries to skirt the road block henican jumped out they have their Super high in the air he
gets shot you've got to watch the you jump through a few steps Yes that's not what happened
he jumped out of the truck and ran up a snowy slope trying to get to the Woods police officers
stepped out of the Woods he put his hands in the air and then he reached for his jacket pocket
and then you put offend all were shot the shooting again Yes but fbi lied about it it and they
shot him and he was trying to save the lives of people in the truck how was he saving lives you
know I've never seen all about all about Jack I'm gonna ask you a reasonable question I want to
raise small direct answer when has anybody by running from the cops during any stop under
any circumstances when it has anybody save lives by running from the vehicle the police are
standing all around that ever happened I am good I old boyfriend comfort case we how isis
saving lives by running from the vehicle because they want him unleashed and women in the
truck they were shooting in the truck already you know there are lots of police stops where the
police never fire a shot I think most of the cops I know never want to fire their guns there's a lot
of paperwork involved there may be a civil lawsuit involved there could be criminal charges you
might have violated Department policy there are lots of downsides to pulling the trigger on that
76

gun if live boyfriend commit just sat in his truck rolled down his window put his hands out the
window like so many felonies stops he was for Only stop at that point because he is running
from the cops he skirted a road block as you say how would he save lives by running from the
truck versus putting his hands out the window and giving up I give you that that he should
never started this whole thing I give you didn't say that at all I said was when you get stopped
by the cops and you think they may be concerned that you're dangerous lecture empty hands
out the window and grabbed the roof of your car through the window and stay there until they
tell you to move do not try to pull a gun because that's almost guaranteed to get you shot
which is a low voice Finicum ended up dead in a suicide by cop it vowed never to be taken while
alive.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 16, 2019 • 12:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_66

now look look boyfriend come that's the name of the gentleman who was shot by the state
police LaVoy Finicum one other text messages on my phone when the last ones half an hour
before shot to death his from one boy Finicum the fact is is that that he got himself shot he
committed suicide by cop but in the case the fbi it is an agency that I simply do not trust not
one little bit.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 16, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_113

the law the city of Salem had a new ban on camping going into effect today a spokeswoman for
the city says despite the ruling the ordinance is in effect the family of a 14 year-old who died by
suicide and bend has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the school district the County and
10 students some high school freshman shot on ADR Lee died by suicide and 2017 a lawsuit
filed on behalf of his estate claims school officials did not investigate several bullying incidents
or tell matter Lee's parents about bullying and according to the complaint went out early
posted concerning messages on social media then police got involved in a car in addition to
County mobile crisis assessment team claims against the County allege the team did not
perform an appropriate suicide risk assessment or monitor out early for suicidal symptoms the
suit alleges out early classmates engaged in behavior beyond that quote downs of social leads
tolerable conduct says the parents of the students are liable for any contention.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 16, 2019 • 12:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_114

little bit later on this hour I'll bring my impeachment update including a few thoughts on james
Komi fired former head of the fbi who showed up on network television this past weekend and
talked about how he was wrong when he stood behind the wiretapping of an American citizen
based on phony data that the fbi refused to tell a judge was phony so they got the warrant and
Komi says now he wouldn't quit as a result of being found out for the things his agency dead of
course not guys too narcissistic to ever do that when you go to the calls on a lob Nay sayers
77

social change naysayers chain when he and I disagree about today your comment about the
way they become I got to say old problem that I'm against all bull tried to pull a gun I just got it
Yep I don't he killed himself he committed suicide by cop Yeah I never fully guaranteed an hour
ago on a bet Yeah I'm actually doing Wow we're gonna have the 9 millimeter semiautomatic
inside the left side the inside pocket of his jacket that was all that that's always reported a long
time ago he reached for the gun he didn't get it out nor should they have let him get it out
because the minute the gun is out you may be dead as a cop so when you tell somebody put
their hands in the air and they reach for an inside pocket their jacket they did after they killed
him they founded did contain a gun because he never went anywhere without a gun and he
had vowed to reporters I will never be taken alive he used those words to say I will never be
taken into custody alive and he reached for a gun and they shot him dead.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 16, 2019 • 4:20 PM

B_DEC_OREG_115

the new york city polic department calls it a crisis. there's been a rise in office suicides this year
the department offers menta healthcare, but there's on lieutenant who says cops can also
benefit from working out together jen maxfield reports. ### members of the nypd crossfit team
are working out their bodies and the mind "if i was stressed, if i was upset about something, i
got to take it out on the weights." nypd crossfit was formed last summer by lieutenant ron
perez, who lost mor than 100 poundnds doing the workouts and gained lifelong friends and a
mo positive outlook "we are connected, we are working out together, we are cheering each
other on/4:20 that does something for you it builds you up and makes you feel more confident
about yourself." by struggling through the workouts together, crossfit help people stay on track
"so in a crossfit setting it s a great way for people to encourage each other to make healthy
habits the crossfit team invited me to join their early morning workout a fast moving
combination of cardio and weights. we rotated through the rower. kettlebells... and jump
squats. a minute each for every station with hel from coach steve the workout is just part of it
officers here can let down their guard and unload the stress of the job o people who understan
"it’s a way of venting and not feeling like you’re going to be looked at weird." the nypd has seen
a troubling rise in suicides in its ranks with 10 active duty officers taking their own lives in 2019.
nypd crossfit even has their own psychologist: "people who are suicidal, they tend to see
themselves alone, solitary, no options. in crossfit it’s the opposite. it’s a community."
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 16, 2019 • 7:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_116

the family of a summit high school student who killed himself two years ago's now suing the
school district, deschutes county and ten students. the 4-hundred-thousand-dollar wrongful
death lawsuit, filed friday, also claims negligence and infliction of emotional distress. the
lawsuit notes that deshaun adderly met with deschutes county's mobile crisis assessment team
shortly before he killed himself.

78

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 16, 2019 • 4:45 PM

B_DEC_OREG_117

Oregon's extreme risk protection order laws nearly two years old the law provides a mechanism
for immediate family Co have cancer law enforcement to temporarily remove firearms from
people who might harm others or themselves since it went into effect Oregonians have
petitioned for 166 extreme risk protection orders more than two-thirds of the petitions were
people at risk for suicide almost a quarter were related to domestic violence.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 16, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_118

the family of a 14 year-old who died by suicide and bend has filed a wrongful death lawsuit
against the school district the County and 10 students some high school freshman shot on ADR
Lee died by suicide and 2017 a lawsuit filed on behalf of his estate claims school officials did not
investigate several bullying incidents or tell matter Lee's parents about bullying and according
to the complaint went out early posted concerning messages on social media then police got
involved in a car in addition to County mobile crisis assessment team claims against the County
allege the team did not perform an appropriate suicide risk assessment or monitor out early for
suicidal symptoms the suit alleges out early classmates engaged in behavior beyond that quote
downs of social leads tolerable conduct says the parents of the students are liable for any
contention.
News Radio KEX
Dec 16, 2019 • 9:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_119

it is already soaks he'll head to dallas you're known as the blanket lady in there and then that's
why founded the minute they are giving away a black cat after my half but of 9 years be
separate from my home us in the military committed suicide from mental illness he developed
can go about our camera phone and efficient feet and then left prepared 30 day and went
missing we power his bod D in oklahoma and when we found him he had been dead for a 30
day don't know I am in a ravine and the heels of hope Cox and he was hiding there and find my
phone he's calmer and find my own he would go there once a month and that's how a SkyWest
phone but he was sniffing March 9 we covered it April may 99 we are so sorry to hear that this
is the that changed your life you start getting involved the homeless here in dallas started giving
away blankets and now you're doing a birthday party for jesus which I I always I always ask my
kids everybody thinks I'm I'm making this up I think every Christmas dinner you should sing
happy birthday you should have a candle on the cake maybe not you know 2020 but you know
you should have details on the cake because Jesus' birthday Yes Sir Yeah so that that's really
what happened after my husband committed suicide the guards but my heart to help the
homeless under a bridge or living in Dhaka found out that and the beginning everybody said no
I'm not going to do about the crazy they just like reef fun I could have found homeless people
and the thing what I got what I do for him after my husband died the fake choose joy I got what

79

I do for you I tell you that I do not I've got what can you do for him it's not prepared to heal so
odd get a kick out of your comfort zone.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 16, 2019 • 11:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_120

global summit on refugees is underway in Geneva the U.N. refugee agency describes lost 10
years as a decade of displacement is making is intended to find that to long-term solutions for
tens of millions of people have had to flee their homes psychologist working with refugees and
migrants on the Greek island of Lesbos say they're seeing an increasing number of children selfharming and attempting suicide.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Dec 17, 2019 • 7:50 AM

B_DEC_WASH_67

investigation of death in jails in the Pacific northwest Yes and that was a team effort across the
region we built a database discovered that 306 people died and County jails in Washington and
Oregon since 2008 we looked at the fact that suicide is the leading cause of death we look at
the deplorable conditions at many jails across States are and because they were built in the 19
eighty's we looked at the disproportionate number of deaths among native American inmates
and and really think prompted a conversation already laws changed and Oregon around jail
conditions in jail oversight.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 17, 2019 • 8:45 AM

B_DEC_OREG_121

it's been nearly two years since an Oregon law took effect allowing law enforcement and family
to petition a court to remove someone's firearms as similar laws take effect across the country
and federal lawmakers consider a national policy guns in America is Jonathan Levinson looks at
how the law has worked in Oregon and warning listeners this story deals with suicide and you
look at this guy do you think he wants to convince Ryan thinks they are and talking about her
son josh she's in the kitchen doing a jigsaw puzzle with her sister Ailina bleep in the fall of 2017
josh his girlfriend broke up with him and hit him hard he became depressed started drinking if
he's good at hiding depression from others telling he'd need a loan but he's right to say no he's
not he is so good at putting our men facing guns in America is using josh his family's last name
to protect his privacy in February 2018 josh shot himself in the leg on the way to the hospital he
told his mom he tried to kill himself and minute you see Mike olson he Spyros damn bad
eventually thing and use Oregon's newly created extreme risk protection orders have sons
firearms moved the laws are commonly known by the acronym Irbil Perez red flag lots Oregon's
version allows immediate family car how attends a law enforce Meant to ask a judge to prohibit
a person from owning or buying a firearm for one year long into effect on January first 2018
guns in America has reviewed all 166 petitions filed in the state through October 31st 2019 the
paint a picture of people an extraordinary crisis com man I'm Val tour just it tore my heart out I
felt like he hated me for a couple of months after Josh Shaw himself he was in and out of the
80

hospital but since he hit his depression and suicidal thoughts from doctors they were limited in
what they could do it but he definitely talk about he was depressed and he would say I want to
die she followed the doctor's advice and try to take guns from him but he refused and I had
tried at one point and he got my face and said get blink out a year finely in April 2018 a police
officer on a wellness check their home told Diane about the new extreme risk protection orders
of the 166 petitions filed in Oregon since the law took effect more than two thirds or 4 people
at risk of suicide there's a father Joseph King County whose son history of cutting himself and
jumping from a moving vehicle is nearly a quarter of the urban petitions related to domestic
violence like Washington County man who pointed a loaded gun to his wife and said maybe
they'll take us both out currently 17 States plus the district of Columbia how extreme risk
protection orders Oregon attorney general Ellen Rosenblum told the PD in an August interview
that Oregon's law hasn't been widely promoted it not being widely used and is not widely
known about of Oregon's 36 counties 11 had issued a similar about 7 and issued just one part of
that may be a function of awareness for the new law but it may also be political I I believe that
there's a preconceived notion that these are not appropriate in our County it's not going to
occur to any law enforcement tried a process that racial SP is executive director of the Safe
project domestic violence advocacy program whose County Oregon I think it's more of a culture
here into the county that everyone has a right to a firearm because of our second amendment
rights she supports the second amendment says not everyone has a right to a firearm bow
Oregon's bombing have been fully embraced law enforcement officials in some States have said
they won't enforce the law detective luc the franks with Washington County sheriff's office in
Oregon has been using them from two years it's certainly not the answer to all the problems
but it can be a useful tool he says before there were times when he would have to accept the
risk would be left unaddressed that void that we may not have been able to resolve the past
they are broke potentially help so that Diane said getting the ER vo for her son josh was a wakeup call for him I think it really shocked him what I did and I think it really gave him some reality
8 soon after the order was in place just got sober his mom said he started going to alcoholics
anonymous and seeing a therapist I don't know if he'll ever come to me and say thank you for
all you did but that's okay she says that is part of being a parent for guns in America I Jonathan
Levinson guns in America is a public media reporting project on the role of guns in American life
find more at guns and America dot org and if you know someone is struggling with thoughts of
suicide called the National suicide Prevention hotline at 102.3 8.
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 8:24 AM

B_DEC_OREG_122

the family of a summit high school student--who took his own life two years ago--is now suing
the school district, deschutes county, and ten students. the 4-hundred-thousand-dollar
wrongful death lawsuit, filed friday, also claims negligence and infliction of emotional distress.
the lawsuit says deshaun adderly met with deschutes county's mobile crisis assessment team
shortly before he ended his life... and that the students being sued used racial epithets, and
pulled him out of another student's car, teasing him after he shaved and dyed his hair.

81

88.5 KNKX
Dec 17, 2019 • 4:25 PM

B_DEC_WASH_68

poverty is it's probably gonna kill me they didn't say that I'm saying it Chuck coma he's 51 came
home from prison with other disabilities to memory loss and explosive temper his vision is
worried his difficulty walking calmly served time for armed bank robbery he was a prisoner at
the federal prison in Lewisburg Pennsylvania in the special management unit set up prisoners
considered dangerous and disruptive prisons often put two men into one small solitary
confinement cell when we did our stories 3 years ago the federal Bureau of prisons justified this
double sell solitary confinement suicides go up and regular solitary confinement so putting two
men together as a way to cut down on suicides and its troop suicides go down but homicides go
up there are high rates of violence between prisoners locked together themselves no bigger
than a parking space for days weeks and months on end that was the conclusion of them care
reporting the Marshall project which reports on criminal Justice it happened the 26th of
February in 2016 a Friday afternoon the prison one called donna across the country until
Saturday it was the prison chaplain he got hold of me and he said you have a son named
Charles coming in nice Yes I do and hes and while incident happened and the they don't know if
he's gonna live two-night the chaplain promise someone would call back with more information
but then no one called two days later died a coma find to reach someone at the prison I said
what happened good and they would tell us nothing and he said he tried to kill himself it was so
aside I know he didn't the injuries were life-threatening her son could meet he sped through to
become brief a surgeon cut through his neck to connect another two to win Wow that's a
breather and do the net that's what to start a new era for a reason who keep me Union parade
and even today the federal Bureau of prisons suggest , injuries other result of a suicide attempt
in its response to a lawsuit filed by the family because France's come was found hanging in his
cell but that's for us we know because we have the Bureau of prisons own internal investigation
it Includes come wasn't found hanging in there wasn't a suicide attempt we found the report
among more than a 1000 pages documenting inmate on inmate violence that and Karen the
Marshall project obtained by filing freedom of information act requests originally was coming
so later said was a suicide but he income class so , fake suicide taking it would get moved to
another cell but the fake suicide went wrong he he does not remember about the incident
donna coma is right her son's memory of what happened is lost but prison officials investigated
and concluded the summit was lying that he strangled coma co-host found on the floor of his
cell he wasn't hanging a bed she was tied around his back but she was loosened the not around
his neck was when that person could tie himself colin K been hit the cellmate was disciplined he
was moved to disciplinary segregation which spurred meant the most likely ended up in his
own cell that some may by the way killed another inmate at another prison we asked the
Bureau of prisons to comment on what we found a spokeswoman said they can't talk about it
because of the family's pending lawsuit.

82

KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 5:59 PM

B_DEC_OREG_123

student who killed himself is filing a wrongful-death lawsuit against bend-lapine schools,
deschutes county, and ten unnamed students. max goldwasser joins us with the details. max?
lee, the lawsuit claims deshaun adderley, a 14-year-old boy, took his own life after being bullied
and racially harassed. deshaun's father, donovan, says officials with the school district knew
about the bullying but did not properly handle the problem. he also claims a county crisis team
member failed to accurately review deshaun's risk of suicide. the lawsuit amounts to 400,000
dollars. it was filed yesterday -- two days after the two-year anniversary of deshaun's death.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 5:27 PM

B_DEC_OREG_124

previously thought. experts had said that up to 30 percent of opioid overdoses were suicides. a
new study by columbia university researchers found it is actually 4- percent. music in our health
alert tonight. that study found that that 4-percent figure dropped from 9-percent between
2000 and 20-17. though the overall proportion of suicides by opioids is down -- the rate of
suicides involving opioids actually increased. both are ongoing public health issues. researchers
say more studies are needed to properly understand the link between suicide and opioid use. if
you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts, contact the national suicide
prevention lifeline.
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_125

the father of a summit high school student who killed himself is filing a wrongful-death lawsuit
against bend-lapine schools, deschutes county, and ten unnamed students. the suit comes 'two
days after the two-year anniversary of deshaunadderley's death. today, we followed up with his
father's lawyer, who says the lawsuit claims 14- year-old deshaun took his own life after being
bullied and racially harassed. they believe officials with the school district knew about the
bullying but did not properly handle the problem. donovan also claims a county crisis team
member failed to accurately review deshaun's risk of suicide. ### "it really isn't about money. in
this situation the number one hope of the family is really to bring these types of situations to
light, and improve the situation for students of bend-la pine schools, so the environment is one
in which they can be free of intimidation." the lawsuit amounts to 4-hundred- thousand dollars.
it says at least one student told deshaun he would -- quote -- be put on his knees and made to
beg for his life. newschannel 21 reached out to bend-lapine schools earlier today. district
officials say they do not comment on pending legal cases. a lawyer for deschutes county told
the associated press they plan on defending all claims asserted against the county.

83

KFXO (FOX)
Dec 17, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_126

student who killed himself is filing a wrongful-death lawsuit against bend-lapine schools,
deschutes county, and ten unnamed students max goldwasser spoke with the man's lawyer
today, and he joins us now ma lee, this comes two days after the two year anniversary of
deshaun adderley death. the lawsuit claim deshaun, a 14-year old boy, took his own life after
being bullied and racially harrasse deshaun's father, donovan, says officials with the school
district kne about the bullying but did n properly handle the proble he also claims a county crisis
team member failed to accurately revi deshaun's risk of suicide. the lawsuit amounts to 400,000
dollars. # "it really isn't about money. in this situation the number one hope of the family is
really to bring these types situations to light, and improve the situation for students of bend-la
pine schools, so the environmen is one in which they can be fr of intimidation. the lawsuit also
claims deshaun was harassed for several month including shortly before his death. it says at
least one student to deshaun he would -- quote -- be put on his knees and made to beg for his
life i reached out to bend-lapine schools earlier today, but officials told me th do not comment
on pending legal cases.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 5:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_127

new research out this week is changing the way we view the link between opioid use and
suicide. which drug is at the center of it all.. break new information tonight […] when we were
looking for a roommate, he wanted someone super quiet. yeah, and he wanted someone to
help out with chores. so, we got jean-pierre. but one thing we could both agree on was getting
geico to help with renters insurance. yeah, geico did make it easy to switch and save. oh no.
there's a wall there now. that's too bad. visit geico.com and see how easy saving on renters
insurance can be. and suicide. new research suggests they may not be as linked... as previously
thought. in tonight's health alert... researchers say the percent of opioid related suicides went
down from 9 percent in 2000... to 4 percent two years ago. doctors say it gives a very different
picture of the role of opioids in the suicide epidemic. researchers believe fentanyl is a factor in
the decline. of the 70 thousand fatal drug overdoses in 2017, about 40 percent involved
synthetic drugs like fentanyl. if you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts,
contact the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 17, 2019 • 4:40 PM

B_DEC_OREG_128

it's been nearly two years since Oregon law took effect allowing law enforcement and family to
petition a court to remove someone's firearms as similar laws take effect across the country
and federal lawmakers consider a national policy guns in America is Jonathan Levinson takes a
look at how the law has worked in Oregon and a warning to listeners the story deals with
suicide and you look at this guy do you think he wants to cancel our thinks he is talking about
her son josh she's in the kitchen doing a jigsaw puzzle with her sister in the fall of 2017 josh his
84

girlfriend broke up with him and hit him hard he became depressed started drinking and he's
good at hiding depression from others so in haiti gave memo goes he's doing and I said no he's
not he is so good it would be our man facing guns in America isn't using josh his family's last
name to protect his privacy in February 2018 josh shot himself in the leg on the way to the
hospital he told his mom he tried to kill himself and minute you see Mike olson he spy world
damn dad eventually thing and use Oregon's newly created extreme risk protection orders have
sons firearms moved the laws are commonly known by the acronym Irbil Perez red flag lots
Oregon's version allows immediate family car how tense for law enforcement to ask a judge to
prohibit a person from owning or buying a firearm for one year long into effect on January first
2018 guns in America has reviewed all 166 petitions filed in the state through October 31st
2019 the paint a picture of people an extraordinary crisis Ha man I'm about tour just it tore my
heart now felt like he hated me for a couple of months after Josh Shaw himself he was in and
out of the hospital but since he hit his depression and suicidal thoughts from doctors they were
limited in what they could do it but he definitely talk about he was depressed and he would say
I want to die she followed the doctor's advice and try to take guns from him but he refused and
I had tried at one point and he got my face and said get the point katty here finely in April 2018
a police officer on a wellness check their home told Diane about the new extreme risk
protection orders of the 166 petitions filed in Oregon since the law took effect more than two
thirds of people at risk of suicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 17, 2019 • 1:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_129

a lawsuit filed recently in Deschutes County Circuit court the says that a 14 year-old student at a
high school in ban was bullying and racially harassed he was he was a black student to the point
where he Committed Suicide in 2017 two years ago they bend bulletin reports the family of
sean Adelaide once 400000 dollars for wrongful death and intentional infliction of emotional
distress from the bend the Pines school district and 10 others students who were not named in
the lawsuit and talk to a lawyer to find out what that means if you're not named in the lawsuit
but you're just you just described generically as one of the kids who is pulling this kid if the
family wins its 400000 dollar lawsuit I would imagine the majority of will be paid for by the
school district but that raises the question if a school district is not maintaining enough control
over the students when they're going to school and that's the only time I hold the responsible
when they're going to school that a student is a bully to the point where he commits suicide the
active suicide is the act of an individual but we've already had cases around the country where
will you encourage somebody to commit suicide you can in some cases be found criminally
responsible for the death of that person the suit says that several days before sean Italy's doubt
a video of him in a physical altercation in some high school bathroom was posted on social
media.

85

KVAL (CBS)
Dec 17, 2019 • 5:17 PM

B_DEC_OREG_130

new research shows opioid use and suicide are not as strongly linked as previously thought.
thinking was up to 33% of overdoses were suicides, new study from columbia university found
it is actually 4% of the overall proportion of suicides by opioids is down, the rate of suicide
involving opioids actually increased both ongoing public health issues.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 17, 2019 • 4:25 PM

B_DEC_WASH_69

Chuck coma he's 51 came home from prison with other disabilities to memory loss and
explosive temper his vision is worried his difficulty walking, served time for armed bank robbery
he was a prisoner at the federal prison in Lewisburg Pennsylvania
in the special management unit set up for prisoners considered dangerous and disruptive
prisons often put two men into one small solitary confinement cell when we did our stories 3
years ago the federal Bureau of prisons justified this double sell solitary confinement suicides
go up and regular solitary confinement so putting two men together as a way to cut down on
suicides and its troop suicides go down but homicides go up there are high rates of violence
between prisoners locked together and sells no bigger than a parking space for days weeks and
months on land that was the conclusion of them are reporting the Marshall project with reports
on criminal Justice in half The 26th of February in 2016 a Friday afternoon the prison one called
on across the country until Saturday it was the prison chaplain he got hold of me and he said
you have a son named Charles career and ice suggests idea of and he's in well incidentally can't
spend and but they don't know if he's gonna live two-night the chaplain promise someone
would call back with more information but then no one called two days later died a coma find
to reach someone at the prison I said what happened good and they would tell us nothing and
he said he tried to kill himself it was so side I know we didn't the injuries were life-threatening
her son could meet he sped through to become brief a surgeon cut through his neck to connect
another two to one pocket while that's a brave and do the net that's what I wish garnish and
therefore as a brazen whom he need Union parade and even today for the federal Bureau of
prisons suggest come was injuries other result of a suicide attempt in its response to a lawsuit
filed by the family because France's come was found hanging in his cell but that's for homes we
know because we have the Bureau of prisons own internal investigation it concludes come
wasn't found hanging and it wasn't a suicide attempt we found the report among more than a
1000 pages documenting inmate on inmate violence that and Karen the Marshall project
obtained by filing freedom of information act requests originally it was coming so later said was
a suicide that he income class so , fake suicide thinking it would get moved to another cell a
fake suicide went wrong he does not remember about the incident donna coma is right her
son's memory of what happened is lost but prison officials investigated and concluded the
summit was lying that he strangled coma was found on the floor of his cell he wasn't hanging
bed she was tied around his back but she was loosened the not around his neck was when that
person could tie himself colin K been hit the cellmate was disciplined he was moved to
disciplinary segregation which spurred meant he most likely ended up in his own cell that some
86

may by the way killed another inmate at another prison we asked the Bureau of prisons to
comment on what we found a spokeswoman said they can't talk about it because of the
family's pending lawsuit.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 17, 2019 • 1:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_70

I want to bring a story to your attention that really I think raises an important question about
public education win talking about education on this program a lot because we have a
tremendous number of dollars public dollars go into public education in fact if you look at the
state budget of Oregon state budget Washington state budget divide dough of the largest single
amount of spending by any of those governments is on education local school districts
frequently have budgets there are nearly as big as the city or the County that they're located
and sometimes they are the biggest employer in some counties depending on where you are in
the northwest weather was a lawsuit filed recently in Deschutes County Circuit court that says
that a 14 year-old student at a high school in ban was bullying and racially harassed he was he
was a black student to the point where he Committed Suicide in 2017 two years ago the bend
bulletin reports the the family of sean it's better late won 400000 dollars for wrongful death
and intentional infliction of emotional distress from the Ben the Pines school district and 10
other students who were not named in the lawsuit and talk to a lawyer to find out what that
means if you're not named in the lawsuit but you're just did jeff described generically as one of
the kids who is pulling this kid if the family wins its 400000 dollar lawsuit I would imagine the
majority of will be paid for by the school district but that raises the question if a school district
is not maintaining enough control over the students when they're going to school and that's the
only time mild response Bowl when they're going to school the a student is both played where
he commit suicide the active suicide is the act of an individual but we've already had cases
around the country where will you encourage somebody to commit suicide you can in some
cases be found criminally responsible for the death of that person the suit says that several
days before DeShawn Italy's doubt a video of him in a physical altercation in some high school
bathroom was posted on social media a lawyer for Deschutes County says they're reviewing
allegations they plan to defend all claims asserted against the County against Deschutes County
against them punt school district it suggests that our schools are out of control it suggest is
we've had died suggested a number of times on the show that schools need to take control of
what is going on undone and if they can't control the students and their actions toward other
students they are making a dangerous place for you to send your kids and I would argue that
they have the power to do this they'll say while the legislature won't give it to us the single
most powerful political entity in every state in America is the teachers' Union if the teachers
Union went to boy's he went to all Indiana went to Salem and went to the state legislature and
said we need changes in the laws so that we can take control of our schools and prevent harm
to kids the legislature would be forced to give it to them but if the Union decide they
represented the teachers decides not to do it then as far as I'm concerned they are part of the
problem as well.

87

KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_131

kids deal with bullying on social immediate and ya school. a family in bend said it got so bad for
their son, deshawn, he took his life. now they're sueing the district, county and ten unnamed
students. just tragic for the family. what are they hoping to accomplish with the lawsuit? >> the
attorney says their biggest thing is to change the culture of the school and how staff responds
to reports of bullying. they don't want anyone to go through what their son went through
n.2017 he was the targets of bullying, cyber harassment, racial harassment and physical
violence. deshawn reported the incidents to summit high school in bend but they didn't follow
the anti- bullying policies. suicide is one of the leading causes of death among younger people
and kids who report frequent bullying others or those bullied are at an increased risk of suicide
related behavior. many organizations are working to stop bullying, one called stand for courage.
i talked to ap student who got involved here in Portland and he says part of chiping the culture
is making sure those who witness it know what to do. >> we encourage kids to speak up and
talk to the bully and say that's not cool or funny. i'm openly someone who doesn't join in with
the fun that you're having. any time that you just don't participate in it that's helping at least or
if you go talk to the victim afterwards. >> stand for courage is a student led program that can
be implemented in any school. we'll post more on our website. deshawn's family hopes their
lawsuit will make people in the community more aware of the impacts of bullying. the school
district and the county said they're reviewing the allegations in the lawsuit. >> if you or
someone you know needs help there is always someone available to talk to. the number for the
suicide presential lifeline is 1(800)273-8255.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 17, 2019 • 6:34 PM

B_DEC_OREG_132

in tonight's health watch, a study suggestion opioid use and suicides are not as strongly linked
at previous live thought. a new study found that it's closer to 4%. accidental overdoses
contributed to 90% of all opioid related deaths. findings suggest for most people who overdose,
the primary clinical focus should be substance abuse. if you or someone you know is struggling
with suicidal thoughts, there are people out there ready to listen. for more information, go to
indicating.com/better together.
AM 860
Dec 18, 2019 • 10:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_133

in Deschutes County lawsuit was just filed claims a 14 year-old black student at a bend high
school was Billy and racially harassed the point he died by suicide two years ago the family sean
chatterley is seeking for dinner 1000 $ from the bad look high school district Deschutes County
and 10 students were not named for wrongful death and intentionally causing emotional
distress the matter the family's hope is that the lawsuit will change the culture of bullying and
House staff respond to reports of bullying don't make sure that no other student goes through
what this child went through according to the CDC kids who report frequently bullying others
88

and those were frequently but later at an increased risk of suicide related behavior there are
many organizations working to stop bullying including one called stand for courage that started
right here in the Pacific northwest another before and preschoolers says a bus driver dropped
her son off at the wrong stop twice in the span of 3 weeks leading her to lose her job for
ducking out of work to track the boy down called Jackson says the first investor for left tighten
her son at the wrong stop on two different occasions babysitter was waiting for him she called
Jackson after the boy was a no-show the two women called the police after a brief searches
officers found tight at a nearby apartment complex about an hour and a half after he left school
Jackson said she had to duck out of work to find her son both times he was dropped off at the
wrong stock she knew on the job and probationary period leading to her firing over the two
absences jackson is filing suit with the Portland public school district.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 18, 2019 • 11:35 AM

B_DEC_OREG_134

new information about the link between opioid use and suicide. new research suggests they
may not be as connected... as previously thought. in our health alert... researchers say the
percent of opioid related suicides went down from 9 percent in 2000... to 4 percent two years
ago. doctors say it gives a very different picture of the role of opioids in the suicide epidemic.
researchers believe fentanyl is a factor in the decline. of the 70 thousand fatal drug overdoses
in 2017, about 40 percent involved synthetic drugs like fentanyl. if you or someone you know is
struggling with suicidal thoughts, contact the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273talk.
KTVZ (NBC)
Dec 18, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_135

as we reported last night, the father of a summit high school student, who killed himself, is
filing a wrongful-death lawsuit against bend-lapine schools, deschutes county, and ten
unnamed students. the suit comes comes two days after the two year anniversary of n
deshaueyadderlth's dea . wtoday,owe followed up th his father's lawyer, who says the lawsuit
claims 14- year-old deshaun took his own life after being bullied and racially harassed. they
believe officials with the school district knew about the bullying but did not properly handle the
problem. the boy's father, donovan, also claims a county crisis team member failed to
accurately review deshaun's risk of suicide. ### "it really isn't about money. in this situation the
number one hope of the family is really to bring these types of situations to light, and improve
the situation for students of bend-la pine schools, so the environment is one in which they can
be free of intimidation." the lawsuit amounts to 4-hundred- thousand dollars. it says at least
one student told deshaun he would -- quote -- be put onis knees and made to beg for his life.
newschannel 21 reached out to bend-lapine schools earlier today. district officials say they do
not comment on pending legal cases. a lawyer for deschutes county told the associated press
they plan on defending all claims asserted against the county.

89

KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 18, 2019 • 7:57 AM

B_DEC_OREG_136

a brian would vancouver mother who was gunned down in front of her. children will be laid to
rest tiffany hill will receive a full military burial in new york city she was killed near sarah j.
anderson elementary school last month by her estranged husband keelan hill hill and then
killed himself hill's children are now in new york where they will live with family members.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 17, 2019 • 11:09 PM

B_DEC_OREG_137

the family of a 14-year-old who died by suicide is suing his school district, the county and 10
students. the lawsuit says bullying and racial harassment led to deshaun adderley's death.
according to the lawsuit, he was one of only a few african american students at summit high
school in bend. between september and december of2017 his family said he was a target of
bullying, racial discrimination and violence. several days before his death this video of a i fight
in the school bathroom was posted on social media. the suit says deshaun reported the incident
to the school, but the school didn't follow through with their anti- bullying policies. the family's
attorneys says they're hoping this lawsuit changes how bullying is handled in schools. >> our
number one hope is frankly for just to put the community and the students and the families of
bend-la pine in a better educational environment, one that's free of intimidation. The
allegations of conduct that are in the complaint are not isolated incidents to bend-la pine. these
are things going on throughout Oregon and frankly, i think throughout America. >> we talked to
the school district and the county. they both told us they are reviewing the allegations in the
lawsuit. if you or someone you know is dealing with thoughts of suicide, there are people
available to talk 24/7. the number for the national suicide prevention lifeline is on your screen,
1-800-273-8255.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 18, 2019 • 8:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_71

An effort is underway to curb the number of first-responders suicides in Arizona clean sleep
deprivation in PTSD first responders are hurting this year and 2019 within the borders of
Verrazano we have lost 11 public safety members to suicide and 11 months in July Harrell is the
President of the 100 club of Arizona who supports public safety and their families when they're
going through the unimaginable including non-line of duty deaths like suicide what's really
alarming is the number of a line-of-duty death pale in comparison to the amount of not line of
duty suicides we've had here in Arizona.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_72

85-year-old federal way woman was arrested today for allegedly killing one roommate and
send and another to a hospital however radios Diane do the weather has the story investigators
90

stated Here's one roommate was killed by blunt force trauma another shot but expected to
survive that injured woman called 9.1 this morning from a home near Adelaide elementary
school KIRO 7 TV reports both victims are in their 30s and the 85 year-old suspect may have
tried to kill herself after the attacks a motive and relationship between the housemates is still
being investigated.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 18, 2019 • 10:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_73

watchers are already in fact region-wide a horrific crime scene and Federer away where an 85
year-old woman accused of beating her roommate to death shooting another one before trying
to kill herself police got a call to that home near Adelaide elementary school where they found
two women in their 30s one was killed from what appeared to be impeding the other was shot
that woman was rushed to Harborview where she is expected to survive is no word yet on what
prompted these crimes police are calling it a domestic violence situation
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 19, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_138

a disturbing story out of the Seattle area tonight, where an 85-year-old woman is accused of
killing one roomate, shooting another, and then trying to kill herself. the woman called 911
around 1 -- 1:00 this morning. federal way police found two women in their 30's, one dead from
blunt force trauma and the other shot. the surviving victim named the 85-year-old woman who
lived with them as the suspect. she unsuccessfully tried to strangle herself with an electric cord.
police are still trying to figure -- trying to figure out what led up to the attack and described it as
a domestic violence situation between roommates.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 7:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_74

one woman is dead another survived being shot at a House in federal way this morning KIRO
radio runs Jason Hogg reports the suspect is a woman in her 80s 11 call 9.1 saying she had been
shot police arrived here found two women in their 30s one of the woman died from blunt force
trauma the second had been shot she was taken to Harborview medical Center and will survive
the suspect in this case is actually an 85 year-old woman who lived with the victims suspect
appears to have tried to kill herself but survived the suspect is in custody the investigation is
ongoing there calling this a domestic violence situation.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 19, 2019 • 12:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_75

an 85-year-old woman is in custody in federal way after she killed one of her roommates and
injured another. our ranji sinha has been on the scene since broke. police are calling it a
domestic violence incident. >> reporter: tracey, investigators have been out here all morning
91

long. the police tape is still up. that's where an 85-year-old woman was living with two women
in their30s. one of the women called 911 to say she had been shot. the two women were in
their 30s and the 85-year-old woman. both victims were found in the house when they arrived
at the end of 306th lane southwest. one was hurt and taken to harborview medical center. she
is expected to survive. the suspect, according to police, may have tried to kill herself, not able
to do so survived and was taken into custody. we've been watching all morning longs a this area
has been completely sealed off. we've seen officers going in and coming out. the matter did still
under investigation, but the police are really involved in this investigation right now trying to
figure out exactly what happened inside that house with that 85-year-old woman and her two
roommates in the 30s now one of whom is dead. of course, as we get more information, we'll
bring it to you on kiro7.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 19, 2019 • 6:40 AM

B_DEC_WASH_76

a domestic incident left one woman dead. we're at the end of 306th lane. i will step out of the
way. the investigation going on right now. federal way police, a woman called 911 saying she
had been shot. police arrived here and found two women in their 30s in this home at the end of
the road. one of the women died from blunt force trauma. the other was shot and was taken to
harborview medical center and will survive. the suspect is an 85-year-old woman who lived
with the victims. the 8345-year-old suspect appeared to have killed herself but survived. the
suspect is in custody. the investigation is ongoing. they're calling this a domestic violence
situation.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 2:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_77

an elderly woman attempted suicide overnight after allegedly killing one of her roommates and
shooting another happened at home in federal way Como carly johnson with detail also home is
on a dead-end road on Southwest 306 the lane near Adelaide elementary school a woman in
her 30s called 9.1 around 12 45 this morning reporting there but a huge are one of the victims
she stays trouble moving as police commander Curt Swan says officers showed up found the
woman who had been shot critical but stable she was taken to Harborview another woman also
in her 30s was dead from what appears to be blunt force trauma and the suspect an 85 year-old
woman who was a roommate she made a suicide attempt before police got there you know
what about around her back she was not successful she's now in police custody trying to get to
the bottom of what led up to this.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 7:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_78

85 year-old woman was taken into custody this morning after police say she killed a roommate
and shot another in federal way overnight this happened at home in southwest 300s six-lane
near Atalay elementary school police found two women in the home in their 30s one been shot
92

but was still alive the other was dead from a pair of blunt force trauma police city the 85 yearold suspect attempted suicide but survived it's unclear what the motive for all of this was.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 3:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_79

police say an elderly woman attempted suicide overnight after allegedly killing one of her
roommates and shooting another happened at a home in federal way come most carly johnson
has details the who was on southwest 306 lane near Adelaide elementary school a woman in
her 30s called 9.1 about quarter one this morning saying she had been shot federal way police
commander Curt Swan arrived they also located if she's a female in her 30s who appeared to be
a victim of blunt force trauma was the victim of a gunshot wound a trench work our view in
critical but stable condition the suspect is an 85 year-old woman a roommate of the victims on
says she attempted suicide by wrapping an electrical cord around her neck but was not
successful it's unclear what led up to the violence.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 7:16 AM

B_DEC_OREG_139

suicide is the second leading cause of death for teenagers and schools increasingly seen as a
key place to help at risk students stay safe but suicide Prevention training for school employees
varies a lot state-by-state jennifer can report remember station W GPH Christina worried when
she found her 16 year-old boyfriend jacob going get drunk and crying at school in the spring of
2018 a sophomore in high school Christina already knew too many people who died by suicide
so remind immediately went to the worst case scenario we are calling Christina by her middle
name because of her family's concern for privacy she says she left Jacob with a friend and
headed to the social worker at her suburban Boston high school for help I named on that door
like make it hard joke and M like almost like and tears he promised me that I call home his
parents and how Dina is gold blum a no But Christine says that's not what happened less than
two months later she got the worst news possible jacob killed himself in his backyard tree
House he was the 5th student who attended the acted foxboro regional high school to die by
suicide in about two years jacob's mother Shannon going yet she was floored to find out later
that Christina had tried to warn her that her son was at risk And someone say T is that there
was a chance we could help jacob because somebody came forward for him on his behalf and
that was a possibility we could have change things mate because steph estate but it recently
notified school officials that she plans to sue the District for failing to contact her she believes
she's been told she could have saved her young son's life she knew that jacob struggle with
anxiety and adhd but she says she did not understand her trouble he was she says Christine
Assad the signs and told an adult she was on the frontline she saw her and she reacted
appropriately with her heart she was worried for jade and then the school just cut the gone
school officials declined to discuss details of jacob staff the social worker could not be reached
for comment but quiet allegations put a focus on the responsibilities and challenges of schools
to respond to the rising mental health needs of students many health experts are cautious
about laying blame after suicide said Kleiman a school social worker and adjunct professor at
93

the University in Boston it really easy in retrospect after something terrible like it happened to
the fact that she did not perform her duty effectively but I don't know that we would know
enough I believe I don't based on what I know already know what he should or should not have
done most experts agree the school personnel in contact with students for a large part of the
day are key resource in providing help federal data shows that more than 17000 young people
ages 9 to 18 died by suicide across the U.S. between 2008 and 2017 numbers are on the rise
more than 17% of high school students said in a recent survey that they seriously considered
suicide in the last year larry Merkel attends the nonprofit Riverside trauma Center in
Massachusetts he provides resources to schools before and after a suicide we mean those two
adults around of tuned to know what good don't know what you hear and what to look for and
how to adequately respond the American Foundation for suicide Prevention recommends that
states require all public school personnel receive at least two hours of suicide awareness and
Prevention training each year but the nonprofit says only 13 States require such annual training
most others require less frequent instruction or simply encourage staff to educate themselves
many school officials say they need more resources in Bedford Massachusetts students and
faculty are still reeling from the loss of a 16 year-old student to suicide earlier this year Here's
school principal heather alon T we're seeing an uptick in concern around anxiety and mental
health concerns our students E and our faculty is wanting to be better prepared Massachusetts
passed a law to require public schools to train staff about suicide Prevention but allows never
funded and the requirement was watered down to a guidance document in act in foxboro
where jacob quiet was a student school officials say they recently started training all staff every
two years the community has struggled with a string of suicide since 2016 Christina Jacobs a
former girlfriend new several of the students' personal I'm from megan to I think that the new
push for atomic energy after jacob died Christina dropped out of school she hopes that by
talking about her efforts to support him she will push others to take young people seriously I
trial date but that didn't work so maybe I can help someone who's has a number of these
suicides rise across the U.S. more families schools and experts are calling for communities to
pay better attention to young people at risk for NPR news I'm jennifer Cam Jennifer Cam is a
senior reporter with wdbo pitches doing And Center for investigative reporting and if you or
someone you know is in crisis called the suicide Prevention lifeline the numbers 100 to 7.8 to 5.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 9:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_80

police tells us a woman called reporting she had been shot officers got there and found two
female victims both in their 30s inside the home one woman was already dead from what
appeared to be blunt force trauma going on a call with a gunshot wound she was taken to
Harborview she's expected to survive the suspect is an 85 year-old woman a roommate of the
victims and she apparently attempted suicide best regulation after committing those assaults
but survived she's now in custody motive for this unclear.

94

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 19, 2019 • 6:15 AM

B_DEC_OREG_140

in today's "positive vibes," i show you how one Portland woman created a cbd business after
she says it helped her tremendously, with grief. >> this is him as a baby. jenny: stacy kamala
waltman has so many pictures and memories of her son ryan. >> this was the photo they used
on the funeral. jenny: ryan committed suicide almost three years ago while he was a college
student in arizona. >> he was a very loved, gorgeous human being sense of humor and , he was
the president of his fraternity. jenny: stacy's world was forever rocked. ryan was her only child.
>> i didn't want to live after that, jenny: stacy says her doctor prescribed her opioids to help
with the grief. but those knocked her out and had side effects. this was at a time when cbd was
starting to become popular. >> when i heard about bd and its efficacy, i heard about its nonpsycho active state, i thought, let's try this let's give it a try. jenny: immediately, she said she
felt more grounded and like more of herself was coming back. so stacey wanted to help others.
>>i decided that creating a bath bomb would be a great idea so i just started experimenting. >>
it took her a while, but she ended up with several different bath bombs and then, branched out
to gummies, oils and foot treatments with cbd. using her middle name, her business "come
kamala's nectar" was born. stacy says as she navigates her new business she would like to think
that ryan would approve of her new venture, >> i believe he would pleased. i believe he would
be impressed. um, yeah. jenny: the fda has not developed a regulatory framework for cbd
products, which you can find in many grocery stores. if you're interested in finding out more
about stacy or her kamala's nectar products, click on the link on koin.com. she does donate a
portion of her proceeds to suicide prevention non-profits after what happened with her son. an
amazing woman, you are the one who gave me the story idea. just to live through something
like that and find a way to channel your energies into making something positive. >> yes, i had
to find out her story. it was funny, we were both flying to california. usually you see someone
on one flight, but we were going and coming back on the same time. on the second flight i was
like. , i need to know more about you, so it was funny to see each other second time. jenny: she
is this interesting person who has had such a life and so much to share. by the way, i tried the
gummies, so they are pretty good. they are not the psychoactive kind -- mom is watching -- it is
cbd, so they just help you relax.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 19, 2019 • 11:54 AM

B_DEC_WASH_81

i got an update on the 30 something old woman shot here this morning. she was taken to the
hospital in critical condition, but she is expected to survive. a second woman in her 30s died
here in the house, hit with some sort of an object. that object has not been identified to me yet.
then the 85-year-old woman, as you said, kelly, in custody, likely to be charged in this case. she
tried committing suicide but failed. police then arrested her.

95

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 19, 2019 • 8:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_82

this morning police say an 85 year old woman killed one of her roommates and shot the other
in federal way police were called to a home along southwest 306 lane this is near adelaide
elementary school overnight and we are told on the scene there officers found two women in
their 30s one woman was dead the other had been shot she was taken to the hospital and is
expected to survive so police say the women's eighty five year old roommate appears to have
attempted suicide after the attack but survived and she is now in police custody police say at
this point the motive is unclear and this does appear to be a domestic violence situation
between roommates there we're working to learn more and as we get more information we'll
pass it along to you.
KONG-SEA
Dec 19, 2019 • 8:04 AM

B_DEC_WASH_83

back home a person dead after two others were hurt after a violent attack. training has more.
>> reporter: federal way not too far from adelaide elementary school. they say it's a domestic
involving three women. one woman is dead and the second one at harborview medical center
and is expected to be okay and then 85-year-old woman who was a roommate to the victims is
suspected to have caused all of this. she attempted suicide after attacking her roommates and
she is now in police custody. it's unclear why this happened i will send it back to you.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 9:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_84

85 year-old woman a federal way is accused of beating one roommate to staff and shooting
another before trying to kill herself we get details from Cairo 17 fees rents said huh Owen call
9.1 saying she had been shot police arrived here found two women in their 30s one of the
woman died from blunt force trauma the second had been shot she was taken Harborview
medical Center and will survive the suspect in this case is actually an 85 year-old woman who
lived with the victims suspect appears to have tried to kill herself but survived the suspect is in
custody the investigation is ongoing and police say the elderly suspect tried to strangle herself
calling the a domestic violence situation they don't know the motive yet.
Portland's CW
Dec 18, 2019 • 10:35 AM

B_DEC_OREG_141

we have done lots of stories on people praising cbd on its health benefits. while the fda has not
substantiated any of these claims, there are a lot of personal stories about the power of cbd.
and as jenny hansson shows us, one portland woman created a cbd business after she says it
helped her tremendously, with grief. >> this is him as a baby. >> stacy kamala waltman has so
many pictures and memories of her son ryan. >> this was the photo they used at the funeral. >>
ryan committed suicide almost three years ago while he was a college student in arizona. >> he
96

was a very loved human being. his sense of humor, he was the president of his fraternity. >>
her world was for barack. ryan was her only child. >> i did not want to live after that. >> stacy
says her doctor prescribed her opiods to help with the grief, but those knocked her out and had
side effects, this was at a time when cbd was starting to become popular. >> when i heard
about it and i heard about its efficacy and its non-psychoactive state, i thought, let's try this. >>
immediately, she says she felt more grounded, and like more of her self was coming back, so,
stacy wanted to help others. >> i decided that creating a bath bomb would be a great idea.
>>>> i just started experimenting. it took her a while, but she ended up with several different
bath bombs, and then, branched out to gummies, oils and foot treatments with cbd, using her
middle name, her business kamala's nectar was born. >> this feels like h i t cashmere sweater.
>> stacy says as she navigates her new business, she would like to think that ryan would
approve of her new venture. >> i believe he would be pleased. i believe he would be impressed.
>> the fda has not developed a regulatory framework for cbd products, which you can find in
many grocery stores. if you're interested in finding out more about stacy or her kamala's nectar
products, click on the link on koin.com.
KNDO (NBC)
Dec 18, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_85

today we met up with comprehensive health and talked about dealing with a crisis. [take vo] vo
[anchor:scott] [readrate:13] scott a person can suffer a crisis at any moment and it can cause a
change in behavior. keeping a person safe during these times is a priority so that they do not
begin to have depression or suicidal thoughts. the vice president with comprehensive health
says they have a 24 hour crisis response team and they also have a designated crisis responder
team that can help assist the person on the other end to make sure they are safe. [take sot] sot
full <"if any individual is having struggles, they're noticing changes in their own behavior or
their own emotions and they try different ways to work through it or move past it that's pretty
normal, after a while however if things continue or they get worse and those coping skills are
not working that would be a good time to think about getting additional support.> on cam ott
ey encourageoeo call the crisis line if they need help.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 8:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_86

got some new information from federal way police about an overnight murder get the latest
live from the most carly johnson well we still do not know what led up to the overnight violence
but I've just spoken with commander courage Tron with Fed away police confirms one woman
is dead at another woman shot and an 85 year-old woman is believed to be responsible for this
officers were called to the home on Southwest 306 lane after Adelaide elementary 12 45 this
morning the woman could been shot actually called for help when officers arrived they found
two women down the one who was shot Tuesday at Harborview were told she was critical but
expected to survive and another woman was dead from blunt force trauma some type of
weapon used that commanders swan could not be more specific on what that was that the 85
year-old woman was still there are remade the victims and she appears to have attempted
97

suicide by strangulation after committing those assaults sport about could prompt and you
were taken into custody without it the earn it here they thought the fire to he told me look like
it was an electrical cord that she used to try and take her own life there's no relationship but no
known relation between the women and the elderly woman all apparently roommates and wait
for further updates from police reporting live.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 19, 2019 • 5:16 PM

B_DEC_WASH_87

a man said by a stroke of luck he noticed a woman in crisis near the tacoma narrows bridge. >>
the story of how that man prevented a tragedy simply by reaching out to a stranger.>> scott
yost's office is one of the more coveted views and puget sound. it looks out here on the tacoma
narrows and its bridge. just a few days ago he noticed a car at four clock a.m. near closed gate.
>> i looked out the door and saw headlights that when to be there.>> reporter: you can tell that
he is processing what he saw next. a woman pacing the sidewalk while her car was left running.
instinctually he said his humanity kicked in.>> i let her know i was there to help and wasn't any
conversation really. but i was there to help it she wanted to talk. >> reporter: he called 911 and
with the help of police state troopers and watchdog she was able to find someone to talk to.
the narrows is sadly a place where nine people over the last five years have taken their lives.
scott said all it took to prevent it was a moment when one person connected with another
human being. >> the right person at the right time at the right place. just lucky. >> reporter:
there is a concerted effort to let people know about the help available. just last year a group of
citizens put together some signs to let those people know that somebody is listening.>>
reporter: they were installed near the bridge earlier this year. bob anderson of the suicide
prevention coalition lost his son here 20 years ago. >> for me the love i have for my son didn't
die with him. >> reporter: the group is working for netting and more signs on bridges. he said
this time of year can be stressful, but we can help if we take a moment out of her own day to
connect. >> hope that if that was something close to me or a family member or anybody that i
knew that somebody would do the same. >> reporter: kiro 7 news. >> thank you for scott to
reaching out like that. if you're a loved one is suffering from depression and has suicidal
thoughts, the national prevention line is open 24 hours a day seven days a week in the number
is there on your screen and the same number out there in the bridge. one 800 273-8255.
Fox 12 Plus
Dec 19, 2019 • 8:45 PM

B_DEC_OREG_142

tonight as part of fox 12's better together series .. we look at a program that's helping teens
understand and talk about mental health issues. things like depression -- anxiety -- anger -stress -- even suicide. fox 12's marilyn deutsch takes us to a school assembly at da vinci arts
middle school. (about 13:33 :06) if syd looks nervous .. she is..she suffers from anxiety. syd is
one of four characters in a play called "ghosted" 13 43 00 yeah kaiser permanente
commissioned "ghosted" as part of its efforts to help teens become mentally fit... it's
performed by oregon children's theatre at local schools. roughly 20 percent of teens struggle
with their mental health. and the suicide rate among teens is alarming. in the play students
98

watch characters like themselves ...struggle and cope at school. (nats 13 43 07 where are you?
i'm right here. )tamara (tuh-mar-ah) carroll directed "ghosted." tamara carroll/oregon children's
theatre 13;22;29;56 to show characters who are relatable who are going thru the same things
and figuring out things the same way teens are figuring it out themselves. to normalize it.
13;50;23;59 hadasha deleon/drama student "one thing that was really important was how they
expressed like in the movements how it made them feel" the play is mainly for high school
students .. but davinci arts middle school .. brought the play to its 8th graders nicole accuardi
/drama /health teacher 13;48;16;34 because we're in a mental health crisis right now in
America. It’s one of the main things that have impacted our school. we have like one counselor
for 500 kids. and especially in our school community 48:23 we have a really really high number
of kids who are lgbtq plus and are seeking a lot of support the play sparks discussion and
understanding:13;49;58;19 quincy boyd/ " it's important to take in everyone around you and
maybe just sit down and have a conversation with them even if you dont know them. because
we really don't know what is going on in other people's lives 50:08 13;51;22;59 13;52;42;13
curtis madlangbayn it's good to just acknowledge that you might not know what’s going on in
people’s lives.the play helps teens support one another .. and helps schools support teens.in ne
portland md f12o for more information on kaiser-permanente's mental health programs go to
kptv-dot- com and click on the kaiser health link.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 4:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_88

don't know what I will tell you why I put out a distress personality I'm free to do what I want to
do just one point to mike's point on the whole point it apparently did exist and is now missing
because the new York daily news your Post reported prosecutors told a federal judge that no
one can locate these surveillance footage not an eye some of them had did exist some don't
some of them would never bruce why did the other one right exactly Yeah I would say this if
you're going to put a guy into place to get suicide and then later say Hey look he will he just
killed himself because everybody was in income pool no one and no one could do anything right
it's it's it's all in complete free this is the present you would choose force said X but you just say
the cameras because year-old Isabelle anywhere I mean why would the couldn't ever existed
why would you just do it into the idea that this is some sort of international conspiracy because
all the rich in the world lined up this place the and he has video tape volume also I would add as
an addendum none of which seems to exist anywhere never has got to know not video but
photos we still we don't we have a photo how the party how dare Me we have completely
suggestive photos these guys having bad behavior I get it but Where's the rest of the stuff he is
blackmailing with allegedly blackmailing right to dennis we'll get a dozen eggs doesn't exist and
I went Oh Yeah would also say can respond just a moment Chris the President so I would also
say that if you if he was ever if there was a situation where you want to have him killed in
prison one is sticking in the general population has happened to him but he to do it you can too
there's any number of ways to do that so easily winded and also why would that and this is my
point is trying to make why would there be any video tape at all to begin with because all you
do is to disable that stuff in advance so let me just answer in reverse the route and I'm not
saying it happens but I'm saying that if he was suicide then that's not putting in general
99

population isn't the same they wanted him dead put in general population everybody knew was
going to die if he was suicide in his cell and that she could have done that initially before he was
before he was able to suicidal Yeah I a member one just what I an ex-cop this stuff in the next
stop is the guy who said he saved them and that is missing I would say this about jeffrey epstein
made him so hard for a mom I understand that he signed everything over to his brother his
property his wealth all that stuff and that I bet shed his brother has a big if if the stuff he's
bribing people with exists brother hasn't he is he is said the second I'm suicide did this thing
goes outs it to a whole bunch of sources and I guess but wait in the media but ignoring the has
seen his brothers said this or you're just speculating many brands of in I'm I'm not speculating
he got his stuff is speculation based on speculation based on speculation that sounds good but
Prime video okay already so far as we know he's a good man he's a criminal turning if you look
at the agreement that at scene ended up signing before he went into prison in July and this was
the odd thing about I think what is unusual about a non-prosecution agreement is that it for
granted immunity to all potential co-conspirators that is something I certainly never seen I
don't know any lawyer that is overseeing the prosecution agreement that granted immunity to
potential co-conspirators basically shutting down the entire investigation against absence
Miami's then U.S. Attorney Alex cust legacy if he didn't get a hug and a stain because he
believed he belonged to intelligence and the state was quote above his pay grade Yeah I've
heard that that for a cost it stands with a cost solution to kick from the administration and
remember this only applies to florida because that's the only place they could Hatch that deal
that does not apply with dallas when there was that would cost was the defense know I think
that I'm sorry if the reverse it does apply individual state investigation right it applies the
federal level what does messy preclude any investigation or doesn't say the toes conspirators
estate invest and the other thing about this and this is the thing is most outrageous to me is
that deal signed by Costa wish the President would fire House the acosta also put it bute did
this all without informing the victims or very her lawyers at all just hated them okay this is from
all that very depressing news about the possible suicide the suit citing jeff I've seen this in what
in what tape that 0 so brilliant FIFA decided in Washington University and beds he would go in
to the police station and steel himself v the presence veteran because the police had pared
their Christmas tree because he's on video now see the video cameras work when they get to
be installed in the lobby of a police station they didn't work outside a different scene celery can
find them he said to weigh in is Deal Christmas gift seize on video he got caught that's because
he was on video he walks outside video I guess had nothing in that nothing and the cops will
drop the charges done there's a conspiracy look I've heard all the food jokes when I woke up
was summoned you don't need to add this guy.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 19, 2019 • 6:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_143

>> steve: new at 6:00 now, it was a story that resonated with a lot of people in the portland
area. a well-spoken young man tries to take his own life. >> deb: he survived and is using his
second chance at life to help others experiencing the same kind of pain. we've talked to cody
multiple times, all part of our youth mental health project. tonight, his mom is opening up
about how she tried to help her son in his darkest days. angie always prieded herself in creating
100

a family life where her kids felt free to talk with her about anything. >> communication is huge.
i have very, very good communication with my kids. and he said, mom p. i took a health class
and it's weird, it shows i have signs of depression. i will tell you i went, really? i said, okay, so
what signs are you talking about? >> deb: even were that reaction, she says that wasn't the
response her son cody needed. >> that time at dinner i'm sitting there and trying to troubleshoot in my brain, and i'm trying to think of how do i communicate. >> deb: she did what a lot
of parents do. tried to find a reason for his feelings. instead of listening differently to what he
was going through. >> that was a reach-out and for me, the reach-out where i put it, i didn't put
it in the severity of mental health. i put it in my box in my brain as okay, he's struggling as a
teenager, he's struggling with hormones, he's struggling with this. i want to find out what's
going on, because i could not pinpoint what would be bothering him. >> deb: when she got that
dreadful call hours after that conversation about cody's attempted suicide, she realized it was
so much more than just teenage stuff. >> i didn't ever stop to say that he may just be struggling
with mental illness and the brain itself is what's unhealthy right now. >> deb: during a katu
town hall on mental health, cody shared with us what he went through. >> i didn't feel like i had
any options. i didn't feel like i could talk to anyone. and i tried to kill myself. >> deb: cody
survived that attempt. reflecting on her family's experience, angie says she learned a valuable
lesson. how do listen differently. she's grateful every day cody survived. and is able to pass on
to others who may have kids struggling too. >> we talked about feelings. i didn't talk about
mental health, though. and even -- i didn't talk about, are you feeling depressed, are you feeling
anxious. are you -- i didn't have those types of conversations. i definitely never went into
conversations about, do you have dark thoughts. do you think of things that are uncomfortable,
do you think -- do you feel like there's something you can't tell me. could you tell somebody
else. >> deb: experts say most mental health crises are temporary, they will pass. if you need to
talk to someone you can call the national lifeline, at 1-800-273-talk. or get more information
online at suicidepreventionlifeline.org.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 19, 2019 • 4:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_89

Cathy George joins us she's media attorney former reporter who talk about the Supreme court
decision that gives you more access to what your employees are doing enough in libya but not
complete access and some of the things they want to hide are indicative of things that act it is
they don't want you to understand or see us coming up next hour this is this is where an
unexpected stuff Lackey as they would say I'm there is a new one thing missing in the jeffrey at
steamy affair so it's not there's a lot missing we have of course I was forget that order this can
we have the footage from inside the jail cell or steam died was Jack that's that we have that
Let's Let's not that's gone but no one has hit a tape but we do have the footage from outside
the jail cell that he died that else no no no so but then there was the time where he attempted
suicide in July allegedly right and why he did E it succeeding I guess his Unfortunately the
suicide I mean this is setting up and he was in the baths is through that sell but when he
attended that in July allegedly and the precedent for behavior yet there's a gentleman who said
I was there I was trying to help put and he want he wants his day in court and he may face the
death penalty he's a former cop who said I tried to help that steve I think rescued him and for
101

that reason I should maybe be given a break in terms of my sentencing so at least we have the
video from the cell Alps I outside his cell were obscene tried to kill himself July 23 that video
that's safe and sound that's about that Yeah prosecutors told a federal judge that no one can
locate that footage in the special housing section of Manhattan Correctional center no one
knows Weyrich its businesses from the July incident so now this is day for Earth video all the
has gone missing for may 4 location can't find it so strangely else in all these cases were so
videos that went missing there were videos we have taken we could be Harris didn't work video
that allegedly exist the first time around when you told me jeffrey have seen suicide himself
know I did one came when one case to bring up is it is a camera that was broken there was no
video that exist and those cameras were broken in the months prior to inside that's for him
even being checked and they have places notorious for that sort of exact sort of thing I don't
know I don't find it terribly absent evidence to the contrary I'm perfectly capable of believing
that he committed suicide saying that you thought this is going to give you today I didn't mind
the steal by the way there is aing on Earth Jeffrey Epstein an interview from somebody from
bloomberg very comfortable I don't know what I will tell you why I put out a distress
personality I'm free to do what I want to do just one point to mike's point on the whole point it
apparently did exist and is now missing because the new York daily news your Post reported
prosecutors told a federal judge that no one can locate these surveillance footage not an eye
some of them had did exist some don't some of them would never bruce why did the other one
right exactly Yeah I would say this if you're going to put a guy into place to get suicide and then
later say Hey look he will he just killed himself because everybody was in income pool no one
and no one could do anything right it's it's it's all in complete free this is the present you would
choose force said X but you just say the cameras because year-old Isabelle anywhere I mean
why would the couldn't even ever ever existed why would you just do it into the idea that this is
some sort of international conspiracy because all the rich in the world lined up this place the
and he has video tape volume also I would add as an addendum none of which seems to exist
anywhere never has got to know not video but photos we still we don't we have a photo how
the party how dare Me we have completely suggestive photos these guys having bad behavior I
get it but Where's the rest of the stuff he is blackmailing with allegedly blackmailing right to
dennis we'll get a dozen eggs doesn't exist and I went Oh Yeah would also say can respond just
a moment Chris the President so I would also say that if you if he was ever if there was a
situation where you want to have him killed in prison one is sticking in the general population
has happened to him but he to do it you can too there's any number of ways to do that so
easily winded and also why would that and this is my point is trying to make why would there
be any video tape at all to begin with because all you do is to disable that stuff in advance so let
me just answer in reverse the route and I'm not saying it happens but I'm saying that if he was
suicide then that's not putting in general population isn't the same they wanted him dead put
in general population everybody knew was going to die if he was suicide in his cell and that she
could have done that initially before he was before he was able to suicidal Yeah I a member one
just what I an ex-cop this stuff in the next stop is the guy who said he saved them and that is
missing I would say this about jeffrey epstein made him so hard for a mom I understand that he
signed everything over to his brother his property his wealth all that stuff and that I bet shed his
brother has a big if if the stuff he's bribing people with exists brother hasn't he is he is said the
second I'm suicide did this thing goes outs it to a whole bunch of sources and I guess but wait in
102

the media but ignoring the has seen his brothers said this or you're just speculating many
brands of in I'm I'm not speculating he got his stuff is speculation based on speculation based
on speculation that sounds good but Prime video okay already so far as we know he's a good
man he's a criminal turning if you look at the agreement that at scene ended up signing before
he went into prison in July and this was the odd thing about I think what is unusual about a
non-prosecution agreement is that it for granted immunity to all potential co-conspirators that
is something I certainly never seen I don't know any lawyer that is overseeing the prosecution
agreement that granted immunity to potential co-conspirators basically shutting down the
entire investigation against absence Miami's then U.S. Attorney Alex cust legacy if he didn't get
a hug and a stain because he believed he belonged to intelligence and the state was quote
above his pay grade Yeah I've heard that that for a cost it stands with a cost solution to kick
from the administration and remember this only applies to florida because that's the only place
they could Hatch that deal that does not apply with dallas when there was that would cost was
the defense know I think that I'm sorry if the reverse it does apply individual state investigation
right it applies the federal level what does messy preclude any investigation or doesn't say the
toes conspirators estate invest and the other thing about this and this is the thing is most
outrageous to me is that deal signed by Costa wish the President would fire House the acosta
also put it bute did this all without informing the victims or very her lawyers at all just hated
them okay this is from all that very depressing news about the possible suicide the suit citing
jeff I've seen this in what in what tape that 0 so brilliant FIFA decided in Washington University.
KMVU (FOX)
Dec 20, 2019 • 11:11 PM

B_DEC_OREG_144

next, we are learning that the surveillance video jeffrey epstein suicide attempt has gone
missing. jen smith joins us now from our new york newsroom with more. when did authorities
realize that this footage was missing? >> well, jesse, the truth is i still don't know. in court, the
prosecutor admitted i don't know the details of how it was destroyed or why it wasn't
maintained when it should have been. at that attempt was at the end of july when he tried to
hang himself. he survived and was moved to suicide watch at the prison. as we know, he went
on to successfully kill himself just two weeks later, and his death is now the subject of an
investigation. looking further into what happened to the missing tape. >> jesse: they were on
duty that night that he died and have been charged with falsifying records. they both are pled
not guilty. jen smith in new york. thank you.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 9:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_90

85 year-old federal way woman is behind bars tonight suspected of killing one roommate and
sending another to the hospital care radios Diane Duke Weiler has that story investigators say
Here's one roommate was killed by blunt force trauma another shot but expected to survive
that injured woman called 9.1 this morning from a home near Adelaide elementary school para
7 TV reports both victims are in their 30s and the 85 year-old suspect may have tried to kill

103

herself after the attack the motive for the relationship between housemates still being
investigated.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 20, 2019 • 11:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_145

deb: we are learning about a stabbing that left three dead and two wounded. 72-year-old janet
rish who was killed when a man stabbed her in a wells fargo. her daughter, deborah thompson,
is in the hospital in critical condition. police say the suspect, 20-year-old salvador martinez raw
mary -- a romero tried to rob the bank and stole two cars and stabbed the drivers. according to
police. we spoke with a woman who allegedly saw him take the second car. >> i looked out the
window and i saw this figure. i thought it was my fly -- neighbor's son. he was in a black hoodie
and black pants and running down the sidewalk to her house and jump into their car. >> he was
arraign -- 8 rained from his jail cell andly -- and he is now on suicide watch.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 9:35 PM

B_DEC_WASH_91

police say an elderly woman attempted suicide overnight after allegedly killing one of her
roommates and shooting another happen at home in federal way calls Karlie johnson has the
day was on southwest 306 lane near Adelaide elementary school a woman in her 30s called 9.1
about quarter one this morning saying she had been shot Fed away police commander Curt
Swan arrived they also located think if she's a female in her 30s who appeared to have been a
victim of blunt force trauma that was the victim of a gunshot wound transport or harbor view in
critical but stable condition the suspect is an 85 year-old woman a roommate of the victims
sean says she attempted suicide by wrapping an electrical cord around her neck but was not
successful it's unclear what led to the violence.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 6:10 AM

B_DEC_WASH_92

police say an 85 year-old woman killed remained shot another man tried to kill herself at their
home in federal way come reports officers money to a 9.1 call at about one a.m. yesterday right
to find one woman dead from blunt force trauma and another woman who had been shot both
women were in their 30s surviving victim named an 85 year-old woman who lived with them as
a suspect she was arrested.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 20, 2019 • 7:35 AM

B_DEC_WASH_93

detective expected back at a scene after a deadly shooting involving two women in their 30s
and their 85 year old roommate police are now saying they don't actually know who the victim
here is and who the suspect is happened early yesterday morning so what we do know is that a
woman in her 30s called 9 1 1 saying that she'd been shot by her 85 year old roommate when
104

officers arrived they actually found the caller with a gunshot wound and another woman this
was in federal way by the way and then another woman in her 30s shot to death early reports
said that the 85 year old woman in the home appeared to have attempted suicide by
strangulation but neighbors tell us that this way they just really have no ia what to think they
say the 85 year old was somebody who they knew well initially police called her a suspect but
they say she's quiet she's petite she's lived in the home for decades let's show you the map of
where this happened apparently they say the two women in their 30s hadn't lived in this home
on southwest 300 and sixth street lane for very long police say they just don't know what a
motive may be here at this moment the 85 year old was taken into custody it's unclear though
if she's still in custody or not.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 8:40 AM

B_DEC_WASH_94

French telecom powerhouse Orange has been found guilty yet its former CEO sentenced to
prison for us ring of employees suicides in the early 2000s while the company was restructuring
as many as 19 workers committed suicide and dozens more attempted it as management was
found to have used harassment and threats to force people out as they cut the workforce.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 20, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_95

sunday marks one year since andy ackerman's son took his life. she has been on a mission to
spread love the random acts of kindness. tonight is no different. she is spending her friday night
in pasco distributing christmas cards and hand warmers to those in need. he says helping
operation red eye is her way of remembering her son as a helper instead of an empty seat . >>
you know it has been incredibly hard. what i want people to know that what we are doing is not
just for our son, it is for every single person who has lost that fight, who has lost hope . >> and
andy says looking back on the last year, she realized how important it is to reduce stress and
just love. we have more on that tonight at 6:30.
B_DEC_OREG_146

KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 20, 2019 • 6:40 PM

signs of hope all put there from a family who lost their son to suicide three years ago. >> it's
been a year since we first profiled the family of joe and cheryl stephens. we go back to see how
they survived the death of their son and how their campaign of hope is making a difference.
here's deb knapp. >> rising in southwest washington there are signs of fall. but beyond the wet
roads and rain drenched leaves are signs of hope. >> instead of the focusing on the
hopelessness let's begin to refocus, shift that idea and say, well, where is hope? >> joe and
cheryl started their suicide prevention campaign after losing their son john to suicide in 2016.
>> we were still grieving significantly, and we still are. i think that's a lifelong process in reality.
>> it began as an 11-week campaign called our city cares focused on camas. we featured it on
katu. >> the community cares so that no one else has to go through what they have. >> three
105

years later signs of hope have spread to 66 school campuses throughout all of southwest
washington. >> they have embraced us very warmly so with our third campaign this year the
2019 signs of hope campaign we have signs in camas, washougal, now evergreen schools. >>
they see and love the momentum changing the conversation surrounding mental health. >> if
we can get this generation of young people in the elementary schools to get somewhat
comfortable talking about mental health and suicide and their teachers and councilors it sounds
like this is how they are taking these signs of hope. >> it's proof they are creating an impact.
they know the need is great to unite and connect. >> everybody needs encouragement.
everybody needs hope. at the root of the cause of suicide is the loss of hope. >> according to
the world health organization a suicide occurs every 40 seconds. experts say most mental
health crises are temporary and will pass. there are always people willing to talk to you
whenever time whatever you're going through in your life. there's the national lifeline.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 20, 2019 • 4:25 PM

B_DEC_OREG_147

air pollution and higher rates of depression and suicide could linked. the research wa published
in t journal environmental heal perspectives it used data from sixte countries published up to
20-1 there was a strong statistical link between toxic air and depression a suicide. other resear
indicates that a pollution causes a reduction in intelligence and is linked to dementia.
KONG-SEA
Dec 20, 2019 • 7:16 AM

B_DEC_WASH_96

police officers had to be brave and remain cool under pressure. that stress after a long career
can lead to depression and ptsd and then suicide. your nicholson reports there is now
something to help struggling officers with stress.'s the >> now they're walking home. >> seth
hansen has seen it all. everything from car accidents to you know, homicides to you know
suicides, you have to suck it up and go on to the next because the next one will come. it does
not stop and never shuts down. >>'s experiences stick with him like the weeks he >> helping the
laker police department in 2009 14 officers were murdered in a coffee shop. got impacted me
until today even just talking about it now, i can feel it right in my guts. >> you look inside and
realize, we have professions that are profoundly impacted by trauma and are susceptible to
that. we need to support them. the fraternal order of police is organizing an effort to get more
councils like seth hassan to visit police agencies in times of trauma. she started the signature
drive to get a new personalized license plate. the proceeds support mental health needs of law
enforcement. there's no method for that now. we go from a homicide scene and drive home to
my family. when you walk in the door, just like going to the next car you cannot bring it with
you. if you do it's distractive. when you work for fred why he got training on how to help hello
officers deal with the stress of the job. most agencies don't offer support. he's backing the push
for the new play. you need to keep good people that would otherwise leave. you will get better
service out of officers.

106

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 9:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_97

the former director of French telecommunications giant is going away the former CEO of what
was then france to a calm was found guilty of institutional harassment and given a 12 month
prison sentence for months of which he will have to serve the court ruled that directors of the
company used illegal and abusive methods to reach a goal of 22000 job cuts a decade ago
employees including high-level engineers accused the company of daily harassment and open
threats to force them to resign at least 19 employees committed suicide a dozen more trying to
News Radio KEX
Dec 20, 2019 • 6:38 AM

B_DEC_OREG_148

I got yet another twist in the Jeffrey Epstein case thank you it turns out there is put H spotted at
a target store of F the most teeth its first apparent suicide attempt after it was reported missing
from in court the other day prosecutors complained that the video outside edge themes jail cell
had been missing however prosecutors are now correct themselves about the shocking
statement saying all the video has been preserved lawyer Ramzi his cellmate at the time putting
a show on the call now it seems like just enough time to say you know mock one up Yeah put
Vin diesel face I don't know why they're having these absolutely I think in some way of doing
something and a.m. on Dec Mark then you can't believe your eyes and ears what sounds good
on the Internet but still there they can act out anything they loved it we got the tape Weirdness
that's a decent point if we got tape running all day every day just real camera this aide said do
me a favor would choose you watching for this to sell like your check I would do very picture of
the jacket and very good at is definitely not jeffrey let me do it then shame on the day on the
unit which is which.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 20, 2019 • 6:25 AM

B_DEC_OREG_149

we're looking at a program that is helping teens understand and talk about mental health
issues. marilyn deutsch takes us to a school assembly at da vinci arts middle school. >> reporter:
sid is one of four characters in a play called ghost it. >> yeah. >> reporter: kaiser permanente
started this program. roughly 20% of teens struggle with their mental health and the suicide
rate among teens is alarming. students watch characters like themselves struggle and cope at
school. >> where are you? >> i'm right here. >> reporter: tamera carol directed ghost it. >> to
show characters who are going through the same things, and figuring out the same way that a
lot of teens are figuring it out themselves. >> one thing that was really poignant was how they,
like, expressed, like, in their movements how they made them feel. >> reporter: the play is
mainly for high school students, but the middle school brought the play to its 8th graders. >>
because we're in a mental health crisis right now in america. it is one of the main things that
has impacted our school. we have one counselor to serve almost 500 kids, and especially in our
school community, we have a really high percentage of kids that are lbgtq plus, and are seeking
a lot of support. >> reporter: the play sparks discussion and understanding. >> it's important to
107

take in everyone around you, and maybe just sit down and have a conversation with someone
even if you don't know them. because we don't know what is going on in other people's lives.
>> it's good to just acknowledge you might not know what is going on in other people's lives.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 10:25 AM

B_DEC_WASH_98

French phone and Internet provider all wrong should been found guilty of a string of employees
suicides cnot Motte corroding Meiji European telecommunications railroad she faces an 18
3000 $ fine old to pay more in damages of suicide between 26 and 28 9 while the company was
ongoing the difficult restructuring schools employees killed themselves Jordan appeared with
recent profit single 59 cases 19 suicides 12 suicide attempts and 8 cases of serious depression
public employees suicides could be going to die directly and so he with network execs took all
the damages is pending.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 22, 2019 • 6:51 PM

B_DEC_OREG_150

a deadly shooting in eugene.. that reportedly started over a leaf blower. carlos angelo's ex-wife
says they were only married for about a year.. and she's thankful he never hurt her. police say
angelo shot three of his neighbors on anthony way in november. they all survived. angelo then
killed himself on his mother's porch. neighbors say angelo was upset someone blew leaves onto
his property. his ex-wife told us angelo wasn't a people person and didn't have any friends. but,
his neighbors told us he always took care of his mother.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 20, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_99

sunday marks one year since annie ackerman brown's son took his life. she's been doing
randoms of kindness. she's been distributing cards and hand warmers to those in need. >> this
year it's been hard. >> one year ago wednesday she received her last text from her son. >> what
we're doing is not just for our son it's everyone who's lost the fight. who's lost hop. >> tonight
she's taking christmas cards and hand warmers to the homeless. >> warming heart enhanced.
>> we want to be out there loving on people. >> hugs and hope. >> never give up hope there's
time for victory and honor. you can make the most beautiful things out of the most tragic. >>>
she's distributed a thousand metra tirr coins. met hundreds of new friends. what comes next?
>> we're focusing on the symptoms that lead up to tragedy, the big one is stress. >> the
nonprofit they started as a new project. using technology to save lives. >> high end massage
chairs using virtual reality to reduce industries. >> they want people to disconnect to reconnect.
>> were fighting for everyone, if that's giving a hug or card, that reduces stress. >>> army corps
of engineers man bound, ackerman brown said to have the july. Trailer.

108

KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 22, 2019 • 7:45 AM

B_DEC_OREG_151

sworn in tuesday the newest member on the force. the badge comes with an important duty.
the goal of the program is to provide emotional support during and following traumatic events.
it's not catching bad guys, it is helping good guys area close to one in four officers have
thoughts of suicide, compared to the general population there are high rates of ptsd d and
burnout and depression. >> it's a very difficult job. see some bad things. we deal with people
and the worst situations on a regular basis. having this guy run will be helpful to everybody. this
already has a positive impact. i take roll call at the beginning of the shift and everybody's super
excited to see him. duties extend beyond the department it will be comfort dog for crime and
trauma victims. in his debut he made the rounds getting plenty of of action. it was donated to
the department from organization guide dogs for the blind. he was in training to be a guide dog
but something got in the way. he needed to go outside a little too often. he was eliminated
from the program and he needed a career change. that brought him here. these puppy kisses
are a superpower for officers who need it most. >> what a good boy you can see those puppy
kisses make a difference already. thanks to generous donations he was given to the department
for free, including food and veterinary services. he will go through extensive training, which has
also been covered through donations. there will be future expenses so if you want to help
donate we have a link on how to do that at our website.
AM 860
Dec 22, 2019 • 6:05 AM

B_DEC_OREG_152

we'd love to bring you the stories of our men and women in uniform now jesse brings us the
story of a nonprofit organization that puts could Taras into the hands of war veteran thousands
of war veterans afflicted with PTSD more soldiers committed suicide since the Vietnam war
died in Nashville that 22 veterans commit suicide every day a lot of them are finding some hope
by playing the guitar pretty simple it's a program called guitars for events and that helps
provide the guitars and free lessons this where a nonprofit were 5 1.3 nonprofits who started
came years ago and we give the policies of the actress and we have found over the course of 10
years it if you have problems if you if you are having issues coping or if the flight to become
stressful claiming a car how its teachers donate third time and companies donate he retires and
piano tuners and whatever work this could Turkey if nothing else it's good therapy for Iraq
posttraumatic stress firm the third piece for anything NATO's I'm the nominee we are musicians
how many be played but those that do you understand what I'm talking about when I say you
can pick up a car start playing in the next two hours is gone and I would echo what you your
piece for us to allow here having a good time your mind quite astounding things this become
okay And this is how it helps veterans with PTSD and help to quiet them down it helps them
feel good about themselves have a positive experience so you come to the V.A. I come here for
about 10 years and find out about the recreation program room and they offered the Congress
so I took my touch the tin can listen in for a good one it helps to leave in the fall you're doing is
plucking the strings it helps bring help where everything is more slowly than two years trying to
relax out of here for me I'd do it comes to very good group of guys coming out in these guys
109

these guys know what to do somewhat better instructors had been a minimalist talk players
they need first position cordial whatever but there's local teaching people and 8 they keep
thinking guide people through any can make them feel like it's a success the program is
supposed to be positive learning experience for everybody she don't want to make anybody
feel like the failed keeping up the program which is the most enjoyable supposed to be fine and
in the next you are watching from instructors the ability to communicate that can be patient
and empathetic what the veterans are going it is a difficult thing for her to find an instructor
who has the flexibility to teach somebody who doesn't have a vision and figure out a way to
show me how to play guitar will say do I will say it was a good experience for both of us have
made him a better teacher but it also made me that this dude is trying to teach me how to
finger pick so I enjoy it back and listen to him on the pitch.
KMTR (NBC)
Dec 20, 2019 • 11:06 PM

B_DEC_OREG_153

people are leaving flowers and messages of support outside the wells fargo or two people were
stabbed this week. police say salvador martinez romero went on a violent spree wednesday
after trying to rob the bank. he killed one woman there and wounded her daughter before
carjacking two other people and stabbing them. beaverton's mayor said crime like this is rare,
and that the city is safe. >> pretty sensitive about the crime, but we will get the report and all
the details at some point, but now the key thing is making everybody feel safe, and beavers and
has been the safest city in the northwest a long time. >> the stabbing suspect has no previous
history of violence. he is now on suicide watch in jail where he is held without bail.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 20, 2019 • 11:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_154

tell us more about this story from the telecoms giant all wrong they were found guilty of things
to institutional harassment over a spate of suicides among employees Yes under the 8th he
missed a huge Exon pull something that happens and French companies having with 19 people
who committed suicide over Yes at all so that's a huge task but that was several people who
committed suicide at boeing or friends Jenson has bean suit I it not be so publicized hadn't
come to judgments yet and in general the VP that the way of reminding people in France is very
hard year-old you call that is a great deal of office undertakes it is admissible wall to pressure
people this I kind of ke giving them a tremendous welco what far away from where they go with
all know the tools it's false is regulated at the bottom of all be in doubt in dices international
who are suffering and suffer suffering one that at people who hate the shelter etc.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 22, 2019 • 6:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_155

we begin with breaking news out of eugene. we're told a man has surrendered to officers after
shooting a gun from his apartment window. police say they used an explosive breaching device
to storm the apartment in the complex. we've learned nobody was injured and at one-point
110

streets and alleys near the area were blocked off. >> she continued to fire outside this
apartment. he presented a risk -- a pretty major risk to people in the adjacent apartment
building, the folks on the street passing by in vehicles and on foot, and to our perimeter officers
that were trying to get eyes on his place. >> police say the subject was suicidal and the crisis
negotiations team was called to the scene. the name of the suspect has not been released. we
will continue to bring you the very latest information as we receive it.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 22, 2019 • 1:50 PM

B_DEC_OREG_156

there is some pretty strong evidence for young people between the ages of 18 and 24
especially 90 became known there has been a real increase in anxiety and depression and might
well be that has to do with smartphones modern media and perhaps just not sleeping as much
not having as much time with real friends but I think your point is so profound because most of
us in the Academy and universities we're encouraging all of our students to be great you can
get a Fulbright you can get into medical school are you going to be but you know what that's
not the right route for everybody and if you say to people Hey everybody just relax and enjoy
our friends and and work that's not what you're supposed to say his push to encourage
everybody to strive for greatness did United States says depression rates for the highest in the
world to Sony research questions that are just right for asking people are beginning to get on
these things that really takes this evolutionary approach asking about wine mood insists that all
in order to for people to see the question until after I mean we go no deeper there you kind of
mentioned the statistics but we have seen a surge and suicide there up about that over 50%
among people attended 19 between 2007 2016 we've seen commenced sure they're very very
similar rise and rates of depression probably not surprisingly T you given what you are seeing
you see patients all the time you've seen this sort of broad overarching research out from the
century to These control what is going on and so Um part of my work is an epidemiology which
means that I'm very careful but talking about these things I haven't actually reviewed the recent
evidence for what might be responsible but there's some things that are obvious an
epidemiologist might not occur to other people a lot of this access to guns I think some of it is
access to inject opiates that killed people sometimes because of playing a lower dose of his
overdose a suicide some of them may well be due to increased oppression and hopelessness
and the dramatic increase in suicides and health problems for older White men that's been
documented in the past few years man might well be due to changes in job opportunities in the
line but isn't mainly due to increases in depression I'm not sure about that but Here's the sad
part turns out of there are many the suicides and young women working in the fields and world
China and apparently that's certainly because their jobs are born in the mail we will be
mistreated times but the more important thing is a they're carrying around them buckets of
insecticide and just one drink doesn't the dose common kinds of everyday things turn out have
a big big influence this is important for public health mean limiting access to guns and poisons
and easy places to John does an enormous sorrow benefit preventing impulsive suicidal for
people who might well be so grateful a little bit later as realizing that their whole life really was
ahead of them up behind them you're listening to innovation of Inter Milan tech with Randolph
will see author of good reasons for bad feelings insights from the frontier Revolutionary
111

psychiatry emu research have you noticed the there and it we talked about all the is an issue
that people experience are the big gender differences here foremost there on the floor and
schizophrenia there are no big differences bipolar disorder not that much eating disorders sure
overwhelmingly more common for women that is probably because of cultural factors induce
guy can the rest but the two big ones seem to be cross culturally specific curve or consistent are
for anxiety and depression and most places women have about twice as much likelihood of
getting depressed anxious this man and it's not just because they reported tomorrow if you go
door to door to a random sample of that that's what you find so what's going on there know in
particular from anxiety people have been asking for decades what's wrong with women why did
they have still much excess anxiety but again an evolutionary view gives you a very different
take on that when you start recognizing anxiety can be useful and that lower level saying of
anxiety might allow you to compete better which might be good for your gains but bad for you
that's true trans had really suggest the amount of anxiety experienced by women on average is
probably about right to any amount experience man is not enough for them to protect
themselves although it's probably the right amount to maximize their genetic transmission
sunset and some sense when you say like we know what's wrong with lenny why don't they
scream why did they experience so much anxiety your country around saying like what's what's
wrong with them when you're losing by what's right with women like why is so much anxiety
like really helpful thing and fered going about your daily life the fray but we should pause he
said nobody likes to feel anxious Yeah nobody likes to feel depressed or anything else so we
have all kinds of clinics are people too much anxiety and too much depression there are people
who don't have enough things adding it's called Hypo phobia and here in arizona we've had you
know I think for people fall into the Grand Canyon over the last months good example of
people who just did not have enough anxiety food and we don't have an extra such people I
think there also are people who just never experienced no mood even when it would be wise
for them the there's certainly no clinics for them so it's it's very understandable these feelings
feel bad ones people want help less food we back up and get off this and you think about you
know medicine like just going to the doctor with some acre pain or whatever it is on and you
think about the strides have been made and testing and and and dealing with all sorts of things
cancer heart disease infections also stuff do you feel like mental illness still has kind of the big
leak and answers yet to go oror may just give you a sense of where you would position in terms
of like medicine at the hospital that you know people go to for physical ailment I think all of us
hoped that we would be able to do something like a specific Tester strep throat and identify the
cause of the disorder and give a specific drug double the fix it and I still hope we will be able to
do that for some diseases no luck so fire with any of our diseases no by my big hope for this
whole perspective is that it can make the country more like the rest of medicine his arrest of
medicine doctors distinguish symptoms from diseases very carefully and they don't say you
cough disorder if you cough too much they say we've got to find the cause of the coffin day
weekend find any cause that's bringing it up normally then we might consider the possibility of
a cough regulation mechanism is working right likewise for fever pain and is the most profound
one I think I just wrote a paper about evolution pain and won by a group so prone to chronic
pain the just a different version vote wiry so prone to chronic depression I think a lot of
depression really is the equivalent of chronic pain and mental pain instead of physical pain and
answers much the same purpose state he stop doing things letter proving costly one way or
112

another I think that kind of approach can make 6 times more like the rest of medicine and
likewise arrested men some understands pathology why things don't work in terms of how
things do work and sick hatchery been looking for the cause of schizophrenia and autism but
Francis for congestive heart failure you know people get swollen ankles and short of breath
because her just isn't pumping enough with the doctors recognized that there could be 10
different…
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Dec 22, 2019 • 7:22 AM

B_DEC_WASH_100

we've been hearing reports of increasing incidence also of self-harm among the children there
there's psychological condition is also deteriorating can you tell us what you've seen Yeah and
the overall depressive was feared the keys into racing and traumatizing the people leaving in
the county's of course damaging especially the children the few that had less than I donate its
most of them David disturbance they do without the night screaming my face and tell us that
they're carrying within themselves from the country vote each days and today the dire
conditions the up on these reaching a case of Sen hob mean and a dense sweet side is one
among minors he's seen attempted suicide for the is something that we have seen the regularly
and recent meet at 13 years the boys whether tried to commit suicide is something that you're
seeing more and more people coming from afghanistan from syria the already experiencing
extreme trauma.
News Radio KEX
Dec 21, 2019 • 6:25 AM

B_DEC_OREG_157

sometimes overlook component of our health as chest as important as our bodies our minds
we take her physical health very seriously and we need to do the same for our mental health
this concludes our emotional psychological and social well-being it influences the way we think
act and feel so what are some signs they're going through a mental health problem you may
notice changes in the eating and sleeping patterns wanting to isolate yourself for losing interest
in activities he previously enjoyed you may also feel allergic or low energy find it difficult to
perform your daily tasks and in the most extreme cases had suicidal or self-harm thoughts do
not be ashamed to seek professional help to maintain positive mental health you can also start
by making some small changes in your daily life like reaching out to others are getting more
physically active I'm also a big fan of meditation even just 5 minutes a day of guided meditation
breathing exercises help center the mind and calm your thoughts.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 22, 2019 • 5:23 PM

B_DEC_WASH_101

it was a stroke of luck this man says that he noticed a woman in crisis with the bridge. rob has
the story of how that man committed a tragedy simply by reaching out to a stranger.>> scott's
office has one of the most coveted views of this area. it looks out here on the narrows and its
bridge. just a few days ago he noticed a car at 4 am near the close gate.>> we saw headlights
113

that were not supposed to be there. >> as we talked you can tell that scott is still processing
what he saw next and woman pacing the sidewalk while her car was running. it was at his let
her know that i was there to help. it was not really a conversation. i was just there to help. she
didn't want to talk. >> they called 911 and with the help from police state troopers she was able
to find someone to talk to. the narrows is sadly a place where nine people over the last five
years have taken their lives. scott says all it took to prevent it was a moment when one person
connected with another human being.>> right person, right time, right place just lucky. >> there
is also a effort to let people know about the help available. just last year a group of citizens put
together some signs to let those people know that someone is listening. >> those signs were
installed on the bridge earlier this year. bob addison at the peninsula of the suicide prevention
coalition lost his own son here 20 years ago.>> for me, the love i have for my son did not die
with him. >> the group is working on adding more signs on state bridges. scott says that this
time of year can be stressful but we can all help if we take a moment out of our own day to
connect.>> we were hoping that that would be something that it would be close for one of our
family members someone would do the same.>> if you, or anyone you know is suffering from
depression and having suicidal thoughts the national prevention line is open 24 hours a day
seven days a week. that number on your screen now one 800 273 8255.
KREM (CBS)
Dec 22, 2019 • 6:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_102

today was shot and 10 years to the day we lose another deputy. so it's things everybody now. e
pierce fire posted this photo on twitter their flag hasn't had staff. we have a confession in
honor of deputy dyson. dyson joined the pierce county sheriff's department not quite two years
ago he was married with a 2-year-old son and a baby due in just a few weeks. we have
professions that are profoundly impacted by trauma and susceptible to the impact of that
trauma. and we need to support them first responders. they see a lot of trauma almost every
day and that has serious impacts on their mental health. so Washington started a new program
where money from a proposed specialty license plate would fund peer counseling training for
law enforcement. drew mickelson at Seattle sister station talked with officers about how the
program could make a difference. they contact my son and now they're walking home as a cop
for more than thirty-five years he said. hansen has seen it all. everything from the car accidents
to homicides to you know suicides. you got to just it up and go on to the next one because the
next one's going to come. they know when one doesn't stop right and never shuts down. he's
retired now but his experiences stick with him. like the weeks he's spent helping the lakewood
police department in 2009 when four of their officers were murdered at a coffee shop that's
something that impacted me today. i mean even just talking to you about it now i can feel it in
my right in my guts were starting to kind of crack that egg a little back and look inside and
realize that we have professions that are profoundly impacted by trauma and susceptible to the
impacts of that trauma. and we need to support them with that buffington with the fraternal
order of police is organizing an effort to get more peer counselors like seth jansen to visit police
agencies in times of trauma to pay for it. she's started a signature drive to get a new personal
license plate in the state. The proceeds would support the mental health needs of law
enforcement. right now there's just no method for that. in this play it would allow that funding
114

source to come in so we can build those services? i have to go from a homicide scene and drive
home to my family right. and when you walk in that door it's kind of like going to the next call.
you can't bring it with you because if you do it's horribly destructive. when he worked for
federal way said hanson got training on how to help fellow officers deal with the stress of the
job. and since most agencies do not offer that kind of support he's backing the push for the new
plate. you're going to keep good people that may otherwise leave you're going to keep people
from committing suicide and you're gonna get better service out your officer’s right.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 23, 2019 • 12:07 PM

B_DEC_WASH_103

County sheriff's deputy shot and wounded a man overnight the most frequent Wednesday
reported a whole thing started in the Grammy area and ended with a wild Chase the man was a
domestic violence suspect deputy say he was armed and suicidal that he pointed a gun at them
and shots were fired the sheriff's office says the guys stole a car and got away with a couple
hours later they found detective Ed Troyer says the man grabbed the deputy's car sending it
into a tree two deputies were hurt one of them had to go to the hospital were very fortunate
that nobody else was hurt or killed him from origins hear any of the other agencies that help
because it wasn't for lack of trying from the suspect's factory says even after deputies blew up
guys tires and shut his car into a ditch he tried to drive over the top of them so one of them
opened fire.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 23, 2019 • 1:10 PM

B_DEC_WASH_104

wild Chase near Graham ended with the Pierce County deputy shooting a man last night the
most franklin she reports began when deputies were called to a home on a domestic violence
incident near 7th Avenue East and with science road the sheriff's office says the man was
suicidal and armed with a gun so they called up the slot to Team detective Ed Troyer says at one
point the man pointed a gun at deputy's and shots were fired the suspect managed to steal a
car and get away a couple hours later deputy found driving around with no lights on we dop
find the vehicle he told cops they stop sticks could knock the vehicle to carry out his tires
continue on the Rams and rammed another one worker told deputies make out about their dot
the did she continue to try and drive open top bus that's when one of our deputies fired
Browns to put it into this whole thing the man survived the shooting two deputies suffered
minor injuries
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 23, 2019 • 5:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_158

velena: police in eugene arrested a man they said was firing a gun from his apartment window.
jennifer: officers forced their way into the apartment in downtown eugene, following an hours
long standoff yesterday. police say the suspect was suicidal, adding he was putting the public in

115

extreme risk by firing his gun at passing cars, or people walking by. no one was hurt, and the
man is now in custody.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 23, 2019 • 3:25 PM

B_DEC_WASH_105

it was a stroke of luck. a man noticed the woman in crisis. rob munoz has the story of how that
man prevented the tragedy by reaching out to a stranger. >> scott used office has a coveted
view in puget sound. >> reporter: it looks out here on the tacoma narrows and its bridge. he
noticed a car at 4:00 a.m.>> i happened to look out the door and saw headlights that weren't
supposed to be there. >> as we talk scott is still processing. a woman pacing the sidewalk and
he said his humanity kicked in. >> and let her know i was there to help. no conversation really
but i was there to help if she wanted to talk. >> state troopers and washed out she was able to
find someone to talk to. the narrows is where nine people have taken their lives. scott said all it
took to prevent it is with a moment when one person connected with another human being. >>
great person, right time and right place. >> a concerted effort to help people know about the
availability. signs were installed near the bridge earlier. bob anderson suicide prevention
coalition lost his own son here 20 years ago. >> for me the love i have for my son did not die. >>
the group is working on netting and more signs. this time of year can be stressful and we can
help after we take a moment out of our own day to connect. >> we hope that was something
close to me. anyone i know. >> rob munoz "kiro7" news. >> if you or anyone you know is
suffering from depression or suicidal thoughts the national depression line open 24 hours seven
days a week. 1800 273 8255.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 23, 2019 • 4:31 PM

B_DEC_OREG_159

today in texas friends and family of heidi broussard are grappling with her murder but one
friend meghan is facing charges. heidi and her newborn daughter margot disappeared
december 12. on thursday investigators found heidi's body inside the trunk of meghan's car. a
mutual friend karessa was in the middle of an interview on a podcast when police zeroed in. >>
oh, my god, oh, my god. >> what? >> what? >> that's meghan, her best friend. heidi would not
be there. i talk to meghan every day all day. she's been sick over this. >> she says sphard she
knew ming and why and heidi had both just given birth. >> this woman just had a baby? >> yes.
she's 15, 16 days old. her and hide yes are best, best friends. >> have you seen her baby? >> i
haven't seen pictures of her. >> police are investigating whether she was actually pregnant and
the possibility she planned to steal heidi's daughter margot. she's charged with kidnapping and
tampering with a corpse. heidi's family says they are overwhelmed with grief. >> she loved
trying new things. i'm really going to miss her voice. >> police are still awaiting results of a dna
test to confirm if the baby they found at meghan's house is in fact heidi's daughter margot. >>
in houston a 16-year-old charged with murder after his 21-year-old girl friend was found shot to
death. officers were called to an apartment complex for a possible suicide. they found a
woman's body in the bedroom with a gunshot wound to the head. they lived together in that
apartment and the circumstances appear suspicious.
116

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 23, 2019 • 5:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_106

first new details after appears county deputy chase led to a shooting. that suspect is still in the
hospital tonight after being shot by a deputy and thank you for staying with us. police say it
began with a domestic violence call which led to a high-speed chase through the county. shelby
miller is live at the scene. >> reporter: and this is where the suspect was shot and we're at the
corner of eighth avenue east and mountain highway. i am told by investigators that earlier in
the day that suspect pointed a gun at deputies and also rammed multiple patrol cars.>>
reporter: sirens and flashing lights speed by is deputies chase a suspect in pierce county. >> the
suspect lou by me doing at least 100 and the troopers and sheriffs were following behind. >>
reporter: they said the chase ended in gunfire when a deputy shut the 49-year-old suspect. at
the corner of eighth avenue east and mountain highway in spanaway. >> there were police and
tow trucks everywhere around the whole corner. i got rerouted out to the back roads. >>
reporter: it began hours earlier when deputies responded to a domestic violence call in graham
sunday evening. the sheriff's department said the suspect was armed and suicidal. >> our
deputies arrived in the suspect armed with a handgun came out and pointed at the deputies
and fired.>> reporter: the sheriff's office of the suspect jumped into a car and rammed the
deputies suv and took off. officers cut up to the car and laid down stop sticks to flatten the tires
but the suspect speeded on the rims. >> he continue to drive over top of us and that is when
one of our deputies fired rounds put an end to this whole thing. >> reporter: cameras captured
shattered glass and bullet holes pierced through the suspects when chilled. >> he was shot by a
deputy. he sustained some non-life-threatening injuries and transported to the hospital for
treatment. >> reporter: the investigation is being handled by the tacoma police department.
officer loretto cool said the 49-year-old suspect has felony warrants and was wanted for
aggravated assault.>> reporter: the sheriff department also told me that two deputies were
hurt yesterday in that incident and there are minor injuries and expected to recover but of
course this came just a day after appears county deputy was killed in a crash on their way to a
domestic violence call. when it comes to the suspect in this case i am told the is expected in
court later this week. shelby miller, kiro 7 news.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Dec 23, 2019 • 9:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_107

time magazine honoring a portland high school coach as one of their heros of the year. keenan
earned national praise for disarming a student who brought a gun to school. when another
teacher rushes in to grab the gun they embraced. prosecutors say the student had been suicidal
for several months. time honored him for showing compassion in a moment of crisis.
KEZI (ABC)
Dec 24, 2019 • 4:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_160

new this morning -- more legal issues for the estate of jeffrey epstein. before his death in
august, epstein was behind bars, accused of running a sex trafficking ring with underage girls.
117

two new accusers, are now part of an existing lawsuit filed in august. the suit is seeking 100million dollars in damages, or an amount to be determined later. epstein died in jail-- the
medical examiner deemed the cause as suicide. he had pleaded not guilty.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 24, 2019 • 12:03 PM

B_DEC_OREG_161

a man faces charge of unlawful use of a weapon after posting video of himself online firing a
gun from a downtown eugene apartment building. take a look. >> never been more happy in
my entire [ bleep ] long life! >> moments after that happened on sunday, police stormed shaun
fox's apartment and took him into custody. the experience was terrifying. >> kind scary,
frightening at first. hearing that downtown in eugene is not something you expect. >> fox's
mother said he recently finished treatment at a drug rehab center. she said fox was feeling
suicidal. friend says he's a good person who ever went too far. >> never in my mind would he
try to kill anybody. he definitely went too far and fortunate he didn't hurt himself or others. >>
no injuries were reported but a car was damaged.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 24, 2019 • 7:26 AM

B_DEC_WASH_108

there's no sound it's actually a piece of surveillance video from Parker's high school in Portland
Oregon and if you watch it it shows a football coach and security guard he and low and he's
backing the classroom into the hallway with a student and a black trench coat and low has
shocked and one hand but he hands off to somebody else and then he just wrapped up an
embrace and they say like that for 40 seconds just hugging and the student you know he he
looks he's crying and court later found he was struggling with this suicidal episode he didn't
intend to hurt anyone else other than himself it was really powerful to me it just shows how
hard all the people in our schools are working every day to make a difference in the lives of
children.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 24, 2019 • 8:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_162

more legal issues for the estate of jeffrey epstein. before his death in august, epstein was
behind bars, accused of running a sex trafficking ring with underage girls. two new accusers are
now part of an existing lawsuit filed in august. that lawsuit, filed by jane doe one and jane doe
two, claims alleged sexual battery. jane doe three and jane doe four are suing the estate for
alleged sexual battery of a minor and alleged assault of a minor. the suit is seeking 100-million
dollars in damages, or an amount to be determined later. epstein died in jail -- and the medical
examiner determined the cause as suicide. he had pleaded not guilty.

118

AM 860
Dec 23, 2019 • 10:35 PM

B_DEC_OREG_163

life expectancy in the United States has declined for the several years that's that's the first we
hadn't seen that before if everything's getting so much better that poverty is falling hunger is
falling Weise the life expectancy declining life expectancy declining in the United States
becauause people are killing themselves I mean literally killing themselves from suicide
especially middle aged white man and very depressed they're getting addicted to opioids
they're killing themselves through drug addiction overdoses that's happening at epidemic levels
and it's not only epidemic we also have an epidemic of loneliness has overtaken the United
States and United kingdom and and much of the West people right now there's a poll in the
United kingdom showed young people are more likely to identify as lonely than older people
and people who've been a widow who lost most of their family no traditional Yeah look it's very
difficult to measure happiness but so much you can as much as these social scientific service tell
you something it has always been the case people become much lonely here as they get over
the hell began much earlier as their spouses die their friends and family members die young
people are much less likely to be lonely yet announced the opposite young people are more
likely to identify as lonely more intensely and more Frequently than older people why is that I
mean we've seen the explosion of diagnoses of anxiety depression and stress and that's true
across the population is especially true young people which is even more perplexing we've seen
suicide rates increased know or have increased more than among teenagers teenage suicide in
the past several years has increased by 70 % 7 0 something own about that is not going to me
that this is the greatest decade Newman is drake Bowl looking to the future only stands to get
worse because people are even having children at this point they're not even replacing
themselves the U.S. birth rate has fallen below replacement replacement rate for couple is
about to point one kids don't feel bad that point one kid and he goes it's much less the brothers
and sisters but on average on average no one has to appoint one kids I guess literally but on
average just got to point one now it's about 1.7 the United States well below replacement.
KHQ (NBC)
Dec 24, 2019 • 5:12 PM

B_DEC_WASH_109

amber alert issued for spokane valley boy taken tuesday morning following stabbing an
absolutely tragic story all around, one that shook our community, but thankfully saw a mother
reunited with her child. during the morning of april 23, deputies say 41-year-old justin
robertson broke into the home of his estranged wife, stabbed her multiple times and took their
5 year old child. a massive manhunt was launched, one that ultimately ended in st. john when
robertson shot and killed himself following a standoff with law enforcement. young ethan was
found safe and reunited with his mother melissa, who was able to recover from her wounds.
melissa Robertson credits her survival from that terrifying ordeal with an adt operator 2000
miles away who quickly dispatched help when robertson pushed the panic button.

119

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 24, 2019 • 6:02 AM

B_DEC_WASH_110

also in the south sound a chase suspect was shot by a pierce county deputy. the deputy opened
fire at corner of 8th avenue east and mountain highway in spanaway. it started with a domestic
violence call in graham where the suspect was armed and suicidal. they say he came out with a
gun, pointed it at deputies, jumped in a car and took off. two deputies were hurt in that
incident.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 23, 2019 • 11:17 PM

B_DEC_WASH_111

I want to address something for me we call All last week from a woman by the name of Tracy
and tracy is transgender and her family has kind of turned on her terror and she's very
depressed farm she was actually calling into talk to our guest about suicide the heartbreak and
that she was thinking because she had a cat who she didn't want to leave behind of killing the
cat I my sure we would go with her and she has agreed not to do this she has agreed to listen to
harsher old to call in on holidays to check in with us any time she once what I'm wondering if
you have anything you like to say to her because I'm sure she's listening right now community I
want to work for your community you can get anything you need from I mean imports of having
a community you get anything you need from a community everything we want in effect in late
will be come out of the 5 it's suicidal would be left alone how hard it God I don't think suicide
but it died and so when we're good nap get for her family but there's like she added that the
family keep her current family understand us in except here year it all boils down to fear
George every problem is a big if you boil it down and yet at the root of the fear so and no one
I don't if you remember the idea of fear and lover to hold for being here the fear side there's
love in the bottle.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 24, 2019 • 6:26 PM

B_DEC_OREG_164

for many the christmas season is about being together. it's tough for people who have to spend
the holidays alone. >> dozens of notes appeared this morning on the hawthorne bridge that
had the same message, you matter. john goodwin has the story. >> reporter: these bridges in
downtown portland add a lot of character to our city. their differences obvious. their strength
evident. maybe you've passed over them many times without even thinking twice. but on
christmas eve, what showed up on the hawthorne bridge had a lot of thought behind it. >> i
care about you. never let a stumble in the road be the end of your journey. >> reporter: about
100 messages, mostly handwritten, simple notes of encouragement. >> life is beautiful. >>
reporter: meant for those maybe dealing with more loneliness than cheer during the holiday
season. >> how about saying hi to a stranger? glad you're on the planet. >> reporter: the ceo of
lines for life, the organization emphasizes the human connection and everything that flows
from it, especially suicide prevention. >> look, somebody out there cares enough about humans
to spend their christmas eve day placing notes and saying i care about you, you're another
120

human and i may have never met you, but i care about you. >> reporter: so if you're having a
rough time, remember that your differences are worth celebrating. you're stronger than you
think. >> it says nothing impossible, the word impossible itself says i'm possible. >> reporter:
and that bridge with no end in sight? it'll eventually get you to the other side. in portland, john
goodwin, kgw news. >> that was an amazing story. well, if you or someone you know is dealing
with thoughts of suicide, there are people available to talk 24/7. you are not alone. the number
for the national suicide prevention lifeline is 1-#00-273-8255.
KOAB (PBS)
Dec 24, 2019 • 7:15 PM

B_DEC_OREG_165

woodruff: now a story of humanitarian trying to help syria. british officials are being urged to
conduct a thorough investigation into the suspicious death in turkey last month of james le
mesurier, the co-founder of the white helmets rescue organization in syria. friends and
colleagues fear he may have been murdered, or that he was driven to suicide by a relentless
campaign of character assassination. special correspondent malcolm brabant has been
examining this and has the story. a warning, viewers may find some of these images distressing.
>> reporter: the body of former is brit oh army jfficerames le mesurier was discovered by
ppworshiers outsmoide a nsque i the western part of istanbul according to turkish state
television, leie mesurr died from the impact of falling from an upper floor of his apartment. le
mesieur sr,een here15 in 20, ran a nonprofit called mayday rescue which trained members of
itthe whe helmets, also known as syrian civil defense. a theyrest fir respondoers wh he clpivilia
cnsaut ghin su stneaisyd rian and russian air strikes d anwe nreomatined for thnoe bepel acpre
izine 26.01 >> in the last two years, they've saved over 15,250 lives, peop hle whoave literally
been dragged hefrom t rubble of ngbuildis that have been blown up isynside ria. >> reporyrter:
sia's prentside assaond was e of the first to expreseos a thry behind le mesurier's death. he told
russian television that weinstern telligence was to blame. >> ( translated ): of course 's it the
work of secret services. but which ones? whenea we spk of turkish and some othert
secreservices in our region, these are not secret se rvices of sovereatign stes. these are
issubdivions of the chief inigtellenvice serce, the c.i.a. i thattrs the uth. th eye 'reyall obg
inmaone ster, c inrdooatinn io ewithacr.h othe ep>> r lorter:sue merier's sw ised eh wifes mma
haedreportly ld tosh turkiti detecheves r d husbanwas mtakingicedation r fossstre. id suicnoe
has rt beenutuled o. bundt fries and coeslleagud fin it hard to believe that le mesuourier weld
hav intentionally leapt from such a relatively low height. i >>n the la yst twoears or so, an awful
lot of people who've disagreed with the russians in particular have fallen off iebalcons. so i
think it is very suspicious. ep >> rr:orte hh amisrede bontt rdgo iona s itbrh ismyar ch icem
walpoea enserxpdt an former colleague of le mesurier. they last met a month before his death.
>> i didn't leave that meeting th hinkingere is someone who is really troubled. but having said
that the amount of abuse, the amount of ill placed propaganda, disinformation that's on social
med dia aninthe ternet coming out of russian botans syd anri regime and others was
unbearable. >> reporter: days before his death, on twitter, the russian foreign ministry accused
le mesurier of being wia spy th a history of facilitating terrorist groups, a claim britain's u.n.
ambassador karen pierce has vigorously denied. on a hillside at christmas common, in southern
england, le mesurier was honored at an art installation commemorating wartime military
121

heroes. the artist dan barton added white helmets to the silhouettes to pay tribute to the
humanitarian work, for which the former army captain was decorated by the queen. the artist
was also eulogizing the 250 white helmet volunteers killed since they started work in 2014.
james le mesurier died on armistice day, when britain remembers fallen veterans. whatever the
cause, le mesurier was a victim of a very modern conflict. there is no hiding place in cyberspace.
le mesurier was at the epicentre of a propaganda war and his friends are appalled by what r
theyegard as a campaign of character assassination. >> there must be a decency line, and if you
cross that then something should be done. some of the stuff coming out of these people, i
think, crosses that decency line. some of the accusing people of being al qaeda, of supporting
terrorism. or>> repter: de bretton gordon is most critical of vanessa beeley, a frequent
contributor to russian media outlets. she belongs to a collection of academics and others calling
themselves the working group on syria, propaganda and media. this group backs president
assad's claims that the white helmets have staged attacks to trigger western retaliation against
the syrian regime. earlier this year in oslo, beeley alleged the white helmets were linked to al
qaeda and claimed they engaged in organ harvesting, charges dismissed by other middle east
experts. she accused le mesurier of complicity, pointing to his prior role as a u.n. peacekeeper
in former yugoslavia where he encountered the kosovan liberation army, the k.l.a. >> the k.l.a.
were running organ cktraffiering opations, cross border organ trafficking operations, and they
were being whitewashed by james le mesurier, former m.i.6 who in 2013, set up the white
helmets, that are effectively al qaeda, dressed in humanitarian…
KONG-SEA
Dec 24, 2019 • 11:07 AM

B_DEC_WASH_112

two parents are battling it out in court right now. they do no agree on what name to their their
child, james or luna. the mom says that their child is transgender and hand diagnosed by
daughters. the father say that is the mom that nip lated the child. originally a jury sided by the
mom. what do you guys make of the case? it starting to gain -- i have been following it for
months. it's start to go gain traction everywhere and creating a reaction. what would you say,
jeff? >> i don't know. i don't know if i have enough to comment on it. i know that you're
following it. job. i want to talk to a transgender person and a medical expert. 7 years old seems
too young to me to know what gender is and sexuay. >> i am so -- >> i don't know the answer.
>> i don't mean to cut you off. i am so imprettiesed by you as a parent. that's the difference,
jeff. you're immediately thinking of i don't know the details about trans issues. neither do i as a
parent. who would i go to? i would go to trans people or doctors that specialize in this for
decades and have the research to back them up. in fact, there's so many studies. the most
resent study that really looked at thousands of kids that transitioned and according to the new
study and american academy of child and adolescent psychology says if you allow the child to
transition socially. that's what this is. cutting the hair and calling the daughter luna or if the son
identifies as a girl, that's socially transitioning. that's based on the study and lineality nating the
at leasts of suicide later and depression. that's what i care about as a parent. how do i make
sure as a parent that my child does not want to commit suicide five years from now or two
years from now. the way to eliminate that according to science is to allow them to socially
transition. not medically but socially. >> i think what parents need to really ask themselves
122

because i know many parents that felt one way about lgbt and then find out their child is in the
community and then feel something different. do you want a relationship with your child or
not? you're never going to force a human being in to something that they want to be. the fact
that it's so divisive between the mother and father, what there really saying is that this is how i
will accept you, and the only way that i'm going accept you or i'm going to accept you fully as
you are. that's the difference in those that have relationships with their children and those that
don't.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 24, 2019 • 4:27 PM

B_DEC_OREG_166

it started with a checkup that led to a question that spurred a discovery that changed the way
we practice health, which led to more questions and more discoveries that changed more ways
we practice health. and on and on it goes. introducing ohsu health: a system of doctors and
nurses, researchers, clinics, and hospitals, all working together to build a better way to
wellness. >>> they're trying to change the wrld with kindness. >>> we've seen them across the
region. kindness campaigns. we even launched one here. they're trying to lift a spirit and
brighten to the mood but do they really work. jennifer dug into the science of kindness schools.
>>> we just want to have an awareness of collective kindness. to the sides of small town
campaigns. >>> people being kind just lead to more people being kind which will make the
world a better place. >>> your mood, your heart, your health. it could leave you with a feeling
of better health. >>> dr. lisa will leave you with a feeling of scientific proof. >>> kindness
changes chemicals in your health. >>> that's that feel good cuddle hormone. >>> it gives you a
warm fuzzy feeling. or as these women call it, a sugar lump. >>> they paired with a series of
random acts of kindness and it's catching on. >>> it feels like fun. because kindness is
contagious. >>> it study shows that giving gives a domino effect that spreads to three people.
and to the nine people that those three people interact with in the future. >>> kindness weaves
a wonderful web and the thing is, it doesn't take very much. even a smile can spark a fire. >>>
geneve raul. katu news. >>> and help can be as easy as programming 1-800-273-talk or 8255,
the suicide hotline. >>> you can get more help on suicideresources.org. >>> we thank you for
joining us and hope this has helped break will stigma of mental health.
Portland's CW
Dec 23, 2019 • 10:12 PM

B_DEC_OREG_167

a swat team had to be called in to help after a man started firing a gun out of the window of his
apartment building. eugene police got a possible about a possible suicidal man firing off rounds
in the apartment and when police got there the man started first at the officers and that
brought in the swat team. the suspect continued to fire off rounds and out of the window so
the swat team broke into the apartment and the suspect surrendered.

123

KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 24, 2019 • 11:14 PM

B_DEC_OREG_168

what about the people that spend holidays alone. dozens of notes appeared on to hawthorne
bridge. they said you matter. >> these bridges in downtown portland add character to our city.
the differences obvious, the strength evident. maybe you passing over them many times. on
mass eve what showed up on the hawthorne bridge had a lot of thought. >> we care about you.
>> it's beneficial, especially for individuals at the last link. >> 100 messages mostly handwritten,
notes of entournament, meant for those dealing with loneliness. >> saying i had to a stranger,
we're glad you're on the planet. the organization emfar sizes is human connection. >> someone
out there cares enough about humans to spent their christmas eve day placing notes and saying
i care about you. you're another human and i may have never met you but i care about you. >>
if you're having a rough time, your differences are worth celebrating. >> it says nothing is
impossible. the word impossible says i'm possible. >> and that bridge will get you to the other
side. >>> we want to with leave you with this. if you or someone you know are feeling with
suicide there's people to talk 24-7.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 25, 2019 • 11:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_113

police in Florida said 3 people have died after Christmas eve shooting and home with children
present police in Lakeland Florida say they are treating the deaths of 3 adults found in a home
as a murder-suicide police captain Ed Cain said there were 4 children under the age of 10 in the
home this true you have been safely removed from the residence in our horror in safe hands
right now but neighbor Mary Lou Royce fears that any time those children think about
Christmas Ville think about the shooting I think is going on they have in their minds forever we
have confirmed tonight that happened and not and not stay with do police have not given any
information about a motive.
B_DEC_OREG_169

News Radio KEX
Dec 25, 2019 • 12:25 PM

this was supposed to be the year sex-trafficking victims of Jeffrey Epstein got just S esteem is
luck may have run out charges years ago involving sexual activity with underage girls resulted in
an exceptionally light sentence but now if he's convicted of sex trafficking he may be looking at
decades behind bars he kept saying it guy like God it's so beautiful and sexy in a gradual said
and endless make me feel very uncomfortable the it's here was arrested in July and charged by
federal prosecutors in New York was charged with two count guy the first conspiracy to commit
sex trafficking second the substance crime those sex trafficking of underage girl for victims it
was a moment they thought would never calm after an earlier leniency deal he beat it once
with be extraordinary help both the government and he's doing the entire thing in secret see in
under the cloak of darkness which clearly we don't have this time on lead by taking away the
freedom agenda we have seen him we restore our the freedom of these victims little more than
a month later Epstein was dated suicide how on Earth is not under special protection the
124

medical examiner's office in new York concluded and Steen had hanged himself in his cell of
clothing you know that learns charm door if somebody wants to kill themselves off and
celebrate yourself lose there's a means to do two guards were charged with falsifying records
to make it seem like they did their appointed rounds when in fact security-camera footage
suggested they did not fare where so many people that are looking for right to seen handcuffed
behind buyers' terror the rest of his life a number that stings victims have sued his estate in
cases that will stretch well into 2020.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Dec 25, 2019 • 7:07 PM

B_DEC_WASH_114

>> reporter: memory that haunts him more now that he has a family. >> it is somebody's kid
over there, that was just [ crying ] -- >> reporter: last year all that unresolved pain came to a
head . that is when he started showing up to work late, and drunk. it put him on a track to get
him out of the military, with amedical discharge. the process they have used with tens of
thousands of soldiers. after he got that second dui as a soldier, his captain put a stop to that
medical treatment. he recommended that the army instead punish smith, by kicking him out for
breaking the rules. >> if you look at what he is being called misconduct, it is really a measure of
the severity of these symptoms. >> reporter: two psychiatrists who examined smith and person
agreed, he was using alcohol to avoid his trauma, to relieve the symptoms of his ptsd. in the
end it would be up to not a doctor, but a major general at joint base lewis mccord, to decide
whether this struggling soldier deserves lifelong and if it's an help or nothing at all. you already
know smith walked away empty-handed. >> i should've picked a different career. >> reporter:
in the army commanding generals always have the power to decide a soldier state, even those
suffering from medical issues like ptsd. those decisions are now coming under scrutiny, last year
we interviewed this sheldon veteran. >> when you witness a massive fluttering -- >> reporter:
he too was diagnosed with severe ptsd. more than once he tried to commit suicide. after our
investigation, whistleblowers came forward. they told us the army has a pattern of punishing
soldiers. >> hurry up and get them out, they are too much trouble. >> reporter: soldiers who
fought the war, suffered mentally, and really just need help. they say the separation process is
there, they issue statements that say commanders look at everything in the packet when
making their decision. but the bottom line is that i continue to have soldiers in crisis contacting
me in the situation, and they are not getting the help that they need. >>> he's got the moves
and an infectious smile.
KOBI
Dec 25, 2019 • 6:15 PM

B_DEC_OREG_170

although Christmas is meant to be a jolly time... for many it can be very difficult. a group in
portland decided to try and make a difference this holiday season. jon goodwin reports. the
bridges of downtown portland add a lot of character to our city.nats their differences, obvious,
their strength, evident.maybe you've passed over them many times without thinking twice nats
of note tapping but on christmas eve, something showed up on the hawthorne bridgewith a lot
of thought behind them.15:24 i care about you car nats 19:37 never let a stumble in the road
125

be the end of your journey 16:20 i think it's really beneficial especially for individuals at that last
link about a hundred messages, mostly handwritten, simple notes of encouragement 15:30 oh
life is beautiful meant for those maybe dealing with more lonliness than cheer during the
holiday season. 35:43 how about saying hi to a stranger, hey really glad you're on the planet
david westbrook, is the c.o.o.of lines for life.the organization emphasizes the human
connection and everything that flows from that...especially suicide prevention 34:53 look,
somebody out there cares enough about humans to spend their christmas eve day placing
these notes and saying i care about you.you're another human and i may have never met you,
but i care about you.so if you're having a rough timeremember that your differences are worth
celebrating, you're probably stronger than you think 20:02 oh here's another one that's a
cardnothing is impossible, the word itself says i'm possible. and that bridge with no end in
sight? will eventually get you to the other side.portland jon goodwin, kgw news someone you
know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national
suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741
any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 25, 2019 • 6:22 AM

B_DEC_OREG_171

ken: time now is 6:22 a.m. and there's evidence of the homeless crisis everywhere you look, but
inside the shelters, tents and cars, every person has a story. elise: the question is who are they,
how did they get there? one local woman wants you to know the story of her mother. ken: last
month, after her mother passed she wrote a message to the community, a message of
compassion. >> i want to share my story with you. and i sincerely hope you read it with an open
mind and heart. my mom was homeless. she died october 6 of natural causes. she was a single
parent raising her only child, me. when i was a very young girl she fought her way through
college to attain a nursing degree. she had a huge heart for people, and was a strong patient
advocate to the point of fault. she had several homes built, with one that overlooked
mountains and a lake. then, she lost it all. see, my mom had a tumultuous upbringing. one that
any of us reading would require years of therapy and support. instead, she chose to fight
through her battles. her battle ultimately bested her. when she lost her sister to suicide, i think
it broke her. it broke her mind, body, and spirit. she never recovered, and lost her way quickly
thereafter. my mom, through her toughness and sadness, even lost her family. i fought for her
time and time again, 100 times over. but, i couldn't win. at some point i had to begin to protect
myself or else go down with her. i was able to hold my moms hand and kiss her forehead when
her heart beat its last beat. i am thankful for that moment. i struggle with guilt, shame, and
overwhelming grief. although she was pretty tough on me as a young girl, i can't help
remember what a wonderful woman she was. the beautiful letters written by patients she
cared for are a testament to my claim. her last few months were spent in a car, living in a safe
park at a church. there were two other bright-eyed, sober, beautiful older ladies who also
parked there. they scrounged their last few dollars to buy me a dozen roses. they were my
mom's only friends when she passed. so, i ask you this. please realize that every case of
homelessness is unique. there is no single solution. we can politicize, critique, and undervalue
each other's opinion of what the solution should be. but, ultimately we don't know.
126

just know that not all are bad. perhaps they are an inconvenience and unsightly. but, also know
that some might shock you with their stories of why they are homeless. finally, we're in the
month of november. the month that sparks thankfulness. i have come to the point in my life
where i am thankful for something every day. whether that be my job, the roof over my head,
or the fact that i have toilet paper. november shouldn't be the only time we should be thankful,
or december the only time we give. i found my mom's stethoscope in her car, coupled with her
sister's christening gown, my grandfather's tin cup that he sipped from as a baby, a mug
lovingly made for her from the 70's, and loads of family photos. all of this safely tucked under
what appeared to be loads of trash. appearance is evil. truth always lies beneath. my final
request is that you put your ear next to someone you love and listen to their heart beat. it's a
beautiful, hypnotic rhythm that breaths life, warmth, and love. lots of love. for every beat a
heart beats, it beats love. an energy that sustains life. minds can be scrambled. but hearts are
simple. they only beat for life and love. listen to it. cherish it. listen to your own. you'll realize
how much you have to give. also, please start to look at the homeless with anything else but
hate. getting rid of them doesn't solve the overwhelming problem. sequestering them from
society, and our eyes, doesn't work either. it starts with listening. ken: you can share her
mother's story by going to koin.com. elise: it is really sad because it goes to show you never
really know what people are going through unless you ask them. and it is also not one thing, but
many things that people are struggling with. ken: this is true, great story.
KOBI
Dec 25, 2019 • 7:16 PM

B_DEC_OREG_172

this year we concluded a 30-week series that began at the tail end of 20-18. it was called hope helping others persevere everyday. for more than 6 months, we shared stories of local people
and families who experienced homelessness but came out on top. we also shared the services
and resources available to people going through the same thing. and this summer we launched
a new campaign called - in this together . it's a collaborative effort with community
organizations to address the difficult topic of suicide. nearly a dozen partners -- from nonprofits to law enforcement agencies -- have joined us, in raising awareness of the growing
epidemic... and offering hope to those who feel hopeless. the campaign will last for two years...
with nbc5's blakely mchugh visiting schools, workplaces, and community events while sharing
resources. you can learn more on our website. if we can save even one life... it will make this
effort worth it. you are not alone, we are in this together. this year we lost many people who
touched our lives ... including oregon secretary of state dennis richardson.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Dec 25, 2019 • 5:15 PM

B_DEC_OREG_173

jennifer: an 85-year-old woman in federal way, washington is facing murder charges. police say
she killed the two women who were letting her live in the house, after the two had bought it
from the suspect in forclosure. olivia lavoice tells the story. olivia: it all started a month ago,
when sisters angela and janet showed up to move into this federal way home. but they realized
someone else was already living there. >> they did not know that the lady was still there. olivia:
127

patrick knew the sisters. he says the unexpected house guest was beverly jean, a woman who
had lived there since 1979. >> she was elderly and living in that house by herself, saying that
she didn't have a place to go. olivia: patrick says janet worked at amazon, but she and sister
angela were also both caretakers. he believes that, combined with their cultural upbringing,
played a role in allowing the elderly woman to stay in the home. as he says, she told them she
needed a little more time to get on their feet. >> african culture is to extend help to those who
needed, support the need, more so the elderly and children and sick. they thought it was not
going to take long before the previous owner moved out. olivia: according to police reports, just
after midnight december 19, investigators found 85-year-old beverly on her bed with an
electrical cord wrapped around her neck and to gun next to her. police say they believe she
attempted suicide. in the kitchen, detectives found a blood-soaked hammer and screwdriver.
32-year-old janet's body was found in the home with multiple gunshot wounds. her sister,
angela, had also been shot, and was fighting for her life area while police and it shall he said
they weren't sure who was the suspect and who was the victim, they now say they believe
beverly killed janet, then waited for her sister angela to get home from work before shooting
her in the back. court documents say investigators found a note inside beverly's car that said,
"janet is not a very nice person, and i had no one to help me." the note also read, "i think she
was getting ready to evict me and i am 85 and have no place to go." the pastor says that is why
the two sisters allowed the woman to say, a good deed loved ones essay went horribly wrong.
>> when they moved over here, they wanted a better life. america is a land of opportunity for
whoever wants to pursue their dream.
KMVU (FOX)
Dec 25, 2019 • 11:06 PM

B_DEC_OREG_174

>> jesse: i'm jesse palmer. here are "dailymailtv"'s fast five stories right now. only we have
jeffrey epstein's fellow inmate during his suicide watch. what he's now saying about his death.
heard him tearing up sheets. then, exclusive new crime scene photos taken moments after a
toddler fell to her death as her parents sue the luxury liner for millions. and the married youth
minister who slapped a reporter's behind speaks out. >> i did not see her facial reaction. >>
jesse: also, terror in toyland. plus, the $10 million bonus that these employees never saw
coming. welcome to the show. let's get right to our exclusive top stories. was it suicide? it's
been 123 days since jeffrey epstein died inside the metropolitan correctional center in the
death of the man accused of sex trafficking remains a global hot topic. a question that simply
won't go away -- was it suicide or something more sinister? today, we are hearing first-hand
from the former inmate who had hours of direct access to him. it's the first time anyone has
spoken out about his final days in prison. and what he has to say may hold clues to his death. >>
he was scared of prison. he thought he is going to get his [bleep] -- >> bill mersey is of course
talking about jeffrey epstein. serving a one-year sentence sentence for tax fraud. he met him
when he signed up for suicide detail. the suicide rate in prison is nearly four times higher than
that of the general population, making inmates suicide watch a necessity behind bars. >> your
assigned to one person. every 15 minutes, you have to write down your observation as to
what's going on. >> jesse: he tells louise boyle that jeffrey epstein felt threatened by the
prison's general population. >> he was afraid of being bullied. >> he did ask you whether he
128

should get protection. >> he asked me do i need a big black guy? and i said it just needs to be a
man, that's all. >> jesse: whether or not fear was a factor, they say he tried to take his own life
back in july when he was found semi conscious with abrasions on his neck. >> i said so jeffrey,
what happened? he wasn't revealing what happened. >> jesse: for his own protection, he was
taken back and forth between his housing unit and the suicide housing unit. they never
discussed the accusations which made him notorious. >> i had no discussions with him about
those girls who were under age. >> jesse: he didn't talk about prince andrew either but did talk
about flying in his private jet with donald trump. according to mersey, it wasn't his job to bring
up controversy. >> my role was to make life worth living. >> jesse: and mersey thought he had
succeeded. a prison psychologist agreed, and epstein was found back there when he was
hanged. so, was it suicide or a conspiracy to take epstein out because he may have had dirt on
some big names? >> so many people would have to be in on a conspiracy. it would really be
difficult. >> jesse: perhaps more importantly, the prisoner in the cell next to epstein told
mersey he heard him tearing up sheets. now it is 99.99% that he committed suicide. >> jesse:
the fbi is investigating whether or not there was foul play involved in epstein's death, and two
prison guards have been charged for sleeping on the job, reportedly falsifying logs, rather than
making the cell checks that they were supposed to the day that epstein died. following the
mysterious circumstances, one of his alleged underage victims, virginia roberts, posted a
chilling message. announcing "i am not suicidal," after accusing prince andrew of sexually
abusing her when she was 17 years old. she says that she was a victim. "if something happens
to me, for the sake of my family, do not let this go away, and help me to protect them. too
many evil people want to see me quieted." next, it has been called a targeted attack.
authorities are still investigating what led to the over three hour shoot-out that finally ended
when the male and female shooters barricaded themselves inside of the jewish kosher
supermarket and were shot dead. >> we know that this did not begin with gunfire between
police officers and the perpetrators and then moved to the store. it began with an attack on the
civilians in the store. without that response from the police officers, immediately and
heroically, i believe, the streets were filled with people. and the school was filled with people.
with the amount of ammunition we have, we have to assume that they would have continued
attacking human beings. if we hadn't been there.
KHQ (NBC)
Dec 26, 2019 • 6:36 AM

B_DEC_WASH_115

this morning an 85-year-old woman in western washington is facing murder and assault
charges... for attacking two sisters... who were letting her live in their house. a month ago...
angela and janet oyga moved into a foreclosed home... and found a women... beverly jenne...
had been living there alone since 1979. the sisters both work as caregivers... so they let jenne
stay there for the time being. then last week... police say the woman suddenly shot and killed
janet... waited for his sister angela to get home... and then shot her in the back. incredibly...
angela survived. investigators later found a note in jenne's car... saying quote "janet is not a
very nice person" and "i had no one to help me". it also read "i think she was getting ready to
evict me and i'm 85 and have no place to go." a friend of the sisters say that's exactly why they
had let the woman stay. "both of them are kind people. also going by the cultural background
129

of where angela and janet come from, it is always encouraged to be kind to older people and
support them as much as you can. i think this is why they didn't find it difficult to allow the
woman to stay a little bit," the night of the shooting... police found jenne on her bed.. .with an
electrical cord wrapped around her neck... a gun next to her... and a blood soaked hammer and
screw driver in the kitchen. they believe she tried to kill herself.... but she's now been released
from the hospital... and booked into jail.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 8:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_116

County sheriff's office is investigating what described as a potential murder suicide deputies
were called to a condo complex summary drive in Bellingham late this morning where they
discovered a 58 year-old woman dead from a gunshot wound the 56 year-old husband rushed
to the hospital with what appears to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 26, 2019 • 6:17 PM

B_DEC_OREG_175

A holiday tragedy is reported in Boston a mother and two children found dead on the sidewalk
police think the woman pushed the two toddler age children off the roof and then jumped
offers so off this horrible situation highlights the invisible struggle so many members of our
community confront and the devastation that can result breaks rawlins is the D.A. for Suffolk
County Massachusetts investigators are calling the death a double murder suicide.
News Radio KEX
Dec 26, 2019 • 4:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_176

in Boston police are calling it a double murder suicide the mother and her two children found
dead on a parking garage sidewalk on Christmas day ABC and field has details of their deaths
police say a 40 year-old mother from her two young children off parking garage roof and then
jumped to kill herself the level of potential despaired that one must feel in order to engage in
this behavior there is help available and just we sincerely hope people use it as secretary Ridge
rollins police say the woman's husband and children's father had called police worrying that she
was suicidal.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 26, 2019 • 4:41 PM

B_DEC_OREG_177

evan: across america, authorities are calling the deaths of a mother and her two young children
a double murder-suicide. this is terrible. they say 40-year-old erin psacal and 4-year-old
daughter and 18-month-old were found on the sidewalk of a parking garage. helicopter video
shows investigators focusing around an suv that had three doors open. authorities say they
were rushed to the hospital but did not survive. officials are offering counseling to the first
responders who responded to this scene.
130

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 2:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_117

in Massachusetts the Suffolk County district attorney says the Christmas day deaths in Boston
involving a mother and her two children from the top of a parking garage appeared to be a
double murder suicide that according to the preliminary investigation.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 26, 2019 • 2:15 PM

B_DEC_WASH_118

back here in Boston Massachusetts police there are continuing to investigate the death of 40
year-old mother and her two young children all 3 were found unconscious on the sidewalk
outside a parking garage on Christmas day local district attorney Rachel Rawlins says right now
in her words all things are indicating the deaths were double murder-suicide she adds we're all
struggling to make sense of the circumstances surrounding these deaths until a police account
town a shocking the Boston area after Christmas day double murder-suicide BBC's tuxedo
person is following this story ready Christmas day turning tragic for one Boston-area A family
the unspeakable happened and now we are all struggling to make sense of the circumstances
surrounding the deaths 40 year-old Aaron Pascale letter two children 4 year-old Allison and one
and a half-year-old andrew was found on the ground next to the Renaissance parking structure
of northeastern University's Boston campus authorities finding a vehicle on the top level of the
garage with the doors open inside the car seats the evidence collected thus far suggests that
these deaths were very likely double murder-suicide University adding extra security patrols to
3 parking structures on campus as indefinitely blocked both pedestrians and vehicles from the
top two floors of the Renaissance parking garage this horrible situation highlights the invisible
struggle this many members of our community confront and devastation that can result in ABC
news chief medical correspondent Dr. Jennifer Ashton authored life after suicide in the wake of
her family's own tragedy every person who dies by suicide the estimates are that 135 people
are directly affected that's over 6 million people a year in this country who lose a loved one to
suicide there were two previous suicide from the same parking structure this year in the wake
of this tragedy authorities reminding anyone considering suicide that help is available including
reaching out the National suicide Prevention hotline one 800 to 7 3 talk.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_119

a monitor to kids are dead and police believe was a murder suicide it happened at a Boston
area parking garage Suffolk County Massachusetts District attorney Rachel Zoll ones today is an
extremely sad day as we begin to put together the pieces of the tragedy that took place
yesterday on Christmas S WBZ TV reports may have stemmed from some type of domestic
dispute with the children's father
KIRO-AM (Radio)

B_DEC_WASH_120

131

Dec 26, 2019 • 3:00 PM
Carla has an update on the stabbing death of a New York City College student test majors
reporting progress in the case here at the 26th precinct station House after nearly a week of
searching for a 14 year-old he was brought here and he was questioned and released to his
attorneys with no charges he is one of a group of young suspects wanted by police in
connection with the killing of majors a student at Barnard College know the two other suspects
only one has been charged looks like a murder-suicide in boston district attorney Rachel
Rawlins says the body of a woman and two children were found near a parking garage
individuals have been identified as a 40 year-old Aaron pass Gal of West Roxbury and her two
children Allison and Andrew 4 and one and a half years old appears normal and pushed the
children to their desk than jump herself.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_121

calling the deaths of a mother and her two children on Christmas day in boston an apparent
double murder-suicide district attorney Rachel rawlins this Christmas day tragedy demonstrates
the urgency of addressing mental health and suicide and homicide we hafta do more Rawlins
says the deaths occurred at the same location as two other separate suicide this year.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 5:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_122

County sheriff's office is investigating an apparent murder that took place and telling him this
morning sharing deputies responded to a condo complex in the 900s block of Marine Drive at
about 10 30 a.m. in response to reported murder and suicide a 58 year-old woman a dog and a
cat were found shot and killed in the apartment deputies also found the victim's husband of live
inside with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound and he was taken to the hospital.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 26, 2019 • 7:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_123

a woman is dead and what police believe was a murder and an attempted suicide the victim's
husband has been hospitalized with what investigators say is a self-inflicted gunshot wound
from a shooting at their home on marine drive in Bellingham. northbound reporter join a small
reports there is no lips there is more to this tragic story.>> the man is under guard here and
that his injuries are very serious. he also tells us that they have not been able to reach the
couple's adult children so we are being very careful with the information that we released at
this time.>> it is an absolute tragedy. >> what can this can -- this county sheriff calls it how
heartbreaking and a small gated committee will be left reeling detectives were called to the 900
block of marine drive this morning after neighbors heard suspiciously loud noises. what they
found inside one of these condos overlooking beautiful bellingham bay. it was upsetting even
for veteran law enforcement. >> it seems to happen all too often. >> a 58-year-old woman was
132

found dead from a gunshot wound. her husband was severely injured and what appeared to be
a self-inflicted gunshot wound. he was rushed to the hospital also inside deputies discovered a
deceased dog and cat who had both been shot. >> that is not something that happens all the
time. >> it is awful the whole situation is just terribly sad.>> if anyone suspects domestic
violence of course call 911 right away but also there is confidential assistance.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 26, 2019 • 5:02 PM

BDEC_WASH_124

new at 5:00, a woman is dead and what police believe was a murder and attempted suicide. the
victim's husband is hospitalized. investigators say it was a self- inflicted gunshot wound from
the shooting on their home in bellingham. joanna small is live tonight outside of st. joseph
hospital. joanna, there is more to this tragic story.>> reporter: lindsay, unfortunately there is,
sheriff tells us that the husband you mentioned there is under watch at st. joseph's hospital in
bellingham. he also tells us they have not been able to get a hold of the couples adult children.
so we are being very careful with the information we released to at this time.>> it's an absolute
tragedy. >> reporter: the county sheriff calls it heartbreaking. this small gated community will
be left reeling. detectives were called to the 900 block of marine drive this morning after
neighbors heard suspiciously loud noises. what they found in one of these condos overlooking
beautiful Bellingham bay was upsetting. even for a veteran law enforcement. >> it seems to be
all too often. >> reporter: he said a 58-year- old woman was found dead from a gunshot wound
and or 56-year- old husband severely injured in what appeared to be a self- inflicted gunshot
wound. he was rushed to the hospital. also inside deputies discovered a deceased dog and cat
who had both been shot. >> that is not something that happens all the time. that is unusual. >>
reporter: and awful. the whole situation, situation is terribly sad. >> if anyone suspects
domestic violence, call 911 right away but there is confidential assistance also. >> reporter: as
you heard right there, the sheriff's office is investigating this is a domestic violence incident.
however, their investigation is really just beginning. joanna small, kiro 7 news.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 26, 2019 • 9:02 PM

B_DEC_WASH_125

a whatcom county man is in the hospital after detectives say he killed his wife and tried to kill
himself. deputies got a call around 10:30 about a murder-suicide in bellingham. they found a
58-year-old woman shot to death along with a dog and cat. the woman's husband appears to
have shot himself. he is in the hospital under guard. the names of the men and women have
not been released.

133

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 10:00 PM

B_DEC_WASH_126

police say they are treating the deaths of 3 adults found in home as a murder-suicide police
captain Ed Cain said there were 4 children under the age of 10 in the home it is true you have
been safely removed from the residence in our horror in safe hands right now but neighbor
Mary load Royce fears that any time those children think about Christmas Ville think about the
shooting I think is going on they have in their minds forever we have confirmed tonight that
happen and not and not stay with to use police have not given any information about a motive.
KFXO (FOX)
Dec 26, 2019 • 8:31 AM

B_DEC_OREG_178

police are investigating what boston's mayor called a horrible tragedy on christmas day. they
say a mother and two young children were pronounced dead, after being found unconscious on
a sidewalk near a parking garage. kimberly bookman went to the scene. ### police tape blocks
off a sidewalk near ruggles mbta station in roxbury. inside the police blockade, there's a
woman's boot and a pocketbook, alongside a child's shoe and broken eyeglasses. natsot:
emergency radio emergency crews were called to the renaissance parking garage around 1:30
this afternoon. when they arrived, they say they found a woman and two young children
unconscious on the ground. commissioner william gross, boston police: "the victims were
transported to a local area hospital where, unfortunately, they were pronounced not viable."
investigators were spotted walking up the stairs to the garage and looking inside. the suffolk
county district attorney says detectives found a car in the garage connected to the three vict it
had two car seats in it. rachael rollins, suffolk co. district attorney: "as a mother, it was
incredibly hard, this scene in particular, where there were two young children that lost their
lives today. we're gonna do everything we can to get the answers" the garage is owned by
northeastern university. it is the same garage, b-c student alexander urtuala took his life on by
jumping off the railing. rachael rollins, suffolk co. district attorney: "on christmas and in the
holiday season, when many people are celebrating, it can be a challenging and difficult time,
but i feel an imperative that we let people know that there is help." right now investigators are
trying to figure out how all three people got from the rooftop to the pavement. chief kenneth
green, transit police: "our hearts go out to the diseased as well as the family." there are
surveillance cameras around the property and police are asking witnesses to come forward.
commissioner william gross, boston police: "we're very upset, we will do everything in our
powers to find out everything we can about this death investigation.

134

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Dec 26, 2019 • 5:32 PM

B_DEC_OREG_179

police in boston are investigating a shocking discovery on christmas day. they say a woman
threw her two young children from the top of a parking garage and jumped herself. >> reporter:
a heart wrenches discovery in boston. two young children and their mother pronounced dead
after they were found on christmas day. the mom was 40 years old, one child was 4 years old,
the other 15 months. the father has been notified of their deaths. all three victims were found
on the sidewalk next to the garage. >> the evidence collected suggests that these deaths which
occurred between approximately 1:25 and 1:35 p.m. yesterday were very likely a double
murder suicide. >> reporter: police were seen pouring over an suv parked on the top level, the
doors wide open, a pair of child seats in the vehicle.>> there is help available to any parent
struggling with the emotional hardships of raising a family. >> reporter: the parking garage is
owned by northeastern university. it's the same one where a boston college student jumped to
his death earlier this year. >> this highlights the invisible struggles many members of our
community confront and the devastation that can result. >> reporter: following the student
suicide and now this tragedy, they are blocking access to the top floors.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 12:55 PM

B_DEC_WASH_127

I have a story and I don't know where to start I'm good but I feel alone in a crowd I'm good but
the past keeps coming back when the service member or veteran in your life since I am again
are you really listen I'm good but I can't get out of bed I can't sleep I feel overwhelmed I'm good
but I don't feel sorry for I'm good but I still have nightmares years I'm good I don't need a Good
I don't feel anything anymore I can't I can't live like this anymore I'm really not so good you
ready to listen text suicide Prevention is everyone's responsibility listen to the veteran or
servicemembers in your life if you're eisas or knows someone who is called the veterans crisis
line military crisis line 802.3 8 to 5 5
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 11:56 AM

B_DEC_WASH_128

I have a story and I don't know where to start I'm good but I feel alone in a crowd I'm good but
the past keeps coming back when the service member or veteran in your life since I am again
are you really listen I'm good but I can't get out of bed I'm get I can't sleep and then I feel
overwhelmed I'm good but I don't feel safe I'm good but I still have nightmares I'm good I don't
need a good I don't feel anything anymore I'm good but I can't live like this anymore I'm really
not so good but you would loosen suicide Prevention is everyone's responsibility listen to the
veteran or servicemembers in your life if you're crisis or knows someone who is called the
veterans crisis line military crisis one 802.3 8 to 5 5 and Press one for free 24 7 confidential
support.

135

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 8:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_180

we're embarking on a new project to reduce suicide in oregon so that all children win name
come there are 11 and up when they come in for any visit or ask questions about depression
and suicide and we're now week to my very first one was a young woman who came in with a
hand injury and wanted to make sure it wasn't broken and the questions were positive and so
we were able to talk about the fact that she had heard her hand by hitting things being abusive
household and yet we've by asking those questions we were then able to get her not only to fix
a broken hand but to a mental health provider and so she could get support so I'm highly
attuned to it and I as someone who just teaching ET cetera I think this is the beginning of a
trend in and medicine and certainly I understand that it's present in schools I think the school's
well ahead of us what what about service that's that's a good way to bring you in here you've
had a long career at this point in education at the beginning though all of your 45 year career
education how much we were these ideas never to Ahmed year up part of your daily thinking
your daily practice they weren't they were part of the thinking at that time was only 7 years ago
when we had a group administrators that it attended a workshop hombre Dr Colletti who is one
of the authors of the landmark Kaiser aces time research adverse childhood experiences are
things like domestic violence food insecurity housing insecurity sexual abuse physical abuse and
accumulation of those things especially the young age we can alter the biology of a child and
certainly the psychology to and so we always knew the kids came to us with a lot of staff for
their lives we always do that we didn't understand was a lifetime implication of that stuff and
when we discovered and listen carefully in 2012 to that research.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 26, 2019 • 12:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_129

Christmas day deaths of a mother and her two children and Boston was an apparent double
murder suicides his district attorney Rachel rawlins is many of you are now where yesterday's
deaths sadly occurred at the same low key share and as two other separate suicide this year the
woman whom she did not identify was 40 her children were 15 months and 4 years old.
AM 860
Dec 26, 2019 • 2:13 PM

B_DEC_OREG_181

in terms of at with all of the positive developments deal has some sense as to why it is that feat
the one area of death that actually has caused life expectancy to decline 3 years in a row in the
United States is the first time that's happened in since world war one we at the the reason most
people stipulate is suicides which should dump which there's an epidemic how do you put the
idea of an improving world all around us together with the idea of suicides well absolutely as
you can and I'm not here to stay it will be one of the reasons we're going to have to give people
a sense that we can hold up problems not give them a sense of just the problems in tone Oh
Yeah I am I don't know investors are edging United States I imagine it has something to do with
these various drug epidemics if they can appeal to grow she put them like they won't about
136

love is a mission over the crisis extends to today I know that I've read some details of the
reports on the so-called depths of despair and explain them based upon drug overdoses
suicides most of which are performed with firearms and one and then alcoholism which is also
a rampant and in the United States and being for the North of england would you know
something about that how are you implying I am not just that just got out of it the two days I
spent in Newcastle Newcastle on time aid years ago were promoting a book of mine that I was
very very impressed by the consumption is club coach herdman city through the half and by the
way where a meeting of course speaking exactly a century-old company probation Jenner
attend the country is under a string of heart of the probation and that didn't work it was a
disaster encourage crime if they did it kind of thinking and God made them less safe for so long
the way to deal with things like drinking and indeed trunking didn't do drugs is in my view to
regulate them rode them to to criminalize for an old the evidence suggests that if you do that
you could you could bring it under control it's just on on the suicide point Steve Baker wrote a
book the better Angels of our nature of the Which think about the decline in violence I am
pretty sure I remember in the long-run officers are ready to die how he United States you may
go up in the us to this Yes that's correct but the general trend and that should be to other
countries where Zika is a homicide rates she and many many other forms of violence and the
old number protection for Harry's is down dramatically we've just been through a very relative
peace full decade may notice felt like because of the way stuff gets reported in the news.
KFFX (FOX)
Dec 26, 2019 • 10:11 PM

B_DEC_WASH_130

an 85-year-old woman is facing murder and assault charges in Washington state. police say she
shot two sisters who were letting her live in the house they bought after she foreclosed on it.
olivia lavoice reports. it all started a month ago, when sisters angela and janet oyuga showed up
to move into this federal way home. but they realized somemeone else was alalready livinng
tthere... festus gumbo/friend: "when they came in, they did not know that the lady was still
there." pastor gumbo who knew the sisters says the unexpected house guest was beverly
jenne-- a woman who'd lived there alone since 1979. festus gumbo/friend: "she was elderly and
she was living in that house by herself, saying that she didn't have a place to go." pastor gumbo
says janet worked at amazon, but adds she and sister angela were also each caregivers. he
believes that combined with their cultural upbringing played a role in allowing the elderly
woman to stay in the home, as he says she told them she just needed a little more time to get
on her feet. festus gumbo/friend: "the african culture teaches you to extend grace to those who
need it, support the needy, more so the elderly, the children and the sick. they thought it
wasn't going to take a long time before the previous owner of the house to move out."
according to police reports, just after midnight, december 19th, investigators found 85-year-old
beverly on her bed with an electrical cord wrapped around her neck, and a gun next to her.
police said they believe she attempted suicide. in the kitchen, detectives also found a blood
soaked hammer and screw driver. 32-year-old janet oyuga's body was found in the home with
multiple gunshot wounds. her sister angela had also been shot and was fighting for her life.
while police initially said they weren't sure who was a suspect and who was a victim, they now
say they believe beverly killed janet-and then lied in wait for her sister angela to get home from
137

work before shooting her in the back. court documents say investigators found a note inside
beverly's car that said-- quote-- "janet is not a very nice person" and "i had no one to help me"
the note also read "i think she was getting ready to evict me and i'm 85 and have no place to
go." pastor gumbo says that's exactly why the two sisters allowed the woman to stay-- a good
deed loved ones say went horribly wrong. festus gumbo/friend: "definitely when they moved
over here they wanted a better life. america is a land of opportunities for whoever wants to
pursue their dreams.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 26, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_182

katherine: authorities in boston believe the death of a mother and her two young children on
christmas was a murder-suicide. the four-year-old and one-year-old were found on the ground
below in a parking garage along with their mother investigators say evidence shows the two
children fell first and then the mother. authorities found a vehicle on the top level of the garage
with the doors open and two car seats inside. >> the evidence collected thus far that these
deaths were likely a double murder suicide. this situation highlights the invisible struggles many
members of our community confront and the devastation that can result. >> katherine: in the
wake of the tragedy mental health experts remind anyone considering suicide that help is
available. you can call the national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk or you can text home to 741741 or
live chat with an expert at suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 8:30 AM

B_DEC_WASH_131

residents yesterday kg Mize Laura Murphy has more serious deputies responded to a condo
complex in the 900s block of Marine Drive at about 10 30 a.m. in response to reported murder
and suicide a 58 year-old woman a dog and a cat were found shot and killed in the apartment
deputies also found the victim's husband of why inside with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot
wound and he was taken to the hospital.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 3:50 PM

B_DEC_WASH_132

we lost a lot of really couldn't quality entertainer in this decade Robin Williams you had
Anthony bourdain gotta conversation started a ballot dying by suicide that we really have a
decade ago Chris Cornell that was a shock to me I'll never forget getting that call 4 o'clock in the
morning saying we need you to file reports on what Chris Cornell was gone it was just bad and
it opened up a whole I think conversation again here these people have everything in the world
they have all the money that you probably will never see in our lives said but they also had a
wife and you think gosh is there something so strong and this world that you leave it for
because of something like depression the following saying that really opened my mind to a lot
of different conversations in those days after Cornell suicide now on a lighter note the next
decade looking into it the stuff you see happening it's a tough call and that's what makes
138

entertainment so interesting is that there is no script for or every Marvel film that comes out
there's always some going to be new Scorsese's film comes out that people are going to start
talking About rankings time for a shiny shame what happens so there's something for everyone
out there Yep exactly and we're also going to see Prince George entering high school of like God
the Fed but where does the time ghost area where that will entertain a correspondent here.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 7:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_133

an elementary school principal was shot and killed at a Bellingham condo yesterday her
husband was found wounded in an apparent suicide attempt a letter from Bellingham school
superintendent greg Baker identified the victim as lynn Himes saw was the principal at
Sunnylands elementary school her therapy dog and a cat or also found shot to death at the
scene no word on her husband's condition.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 12:19 PM

B_DEC_WASH_134

a new documentary called the screen majors the next chapter examines teenagers and the
connections between social media and anxiety and depression the helmet that filmmaker
diving into the topic after she saw her own daughters suffering he sees that he Worley sat
down with both of them screen majors at the 2016 documentary about kids and screams has
been shown 9000 times to more than 4 million people it's an ongoing movement that what I
see is the biggest challenge of parenting right now thanks a lot mom connect and the those are
my friends cheers like I and the woman who made the movie I thought she had her family well
in order until her daughter Tessa started to struggle Dr Delaney rested Chronicle what he
described as Daughters depression and the alarming rise in teen anxiety depression and suicide
in a new documentary screening agers next chapter meeting that diagnoses of like I need a
doctor being Yes you do have anxiety that was evaluating for me and a major take-away kids
feel like they can't talk to anyone even their parents to be like China reached for I was amazed
at how many months into her depression I assume she was talking to a friend or someone and
he said no I haven't told anyone tacit tried expressing his feelings on social media ticket was
home us how it felt to me who tried so hard to say look I'm not perfect at all they're like you
were here for the journey learn from them at the film's premiere in Seattle parents say they see
the issues with mental health and screens first hand the there are solutions you talk a lot about
validation what does that mean T I often use the phrase that sounds really hard and it works
wonders I can to seeing their activities and the sadness and amount from her some of the
things I danced and that really helped in the moment hard work paid you're doing the best of
chaos and horror story year and closing highs my mom especially wood commuter 8 I won it the
feeling this way is I had a choice they think they should praise teens with specifics just like when
they were toddlers catch them doing something good don't give up on finding ways to limit
screen time even if you think that ship has sailed I learned not to tolerate that teens strong
emotions I think about this I have to hold my senator so my kids can learn to hold their tears

139

they need us to listen to ask open questions to validate this struggle and sometimes they just
need to witness the messiness they're going through without offering solutions.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 12:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_135

on Christmas day a mother and her two young children fell from a garage in boston now
authorities are calling it a double murder-suicide Marion Wasser of members stationed W BR
reports investigators have identified the mother of a 4 year-old girl and one half year-old boy
Suffolk County D.A. rachel Rawlins says the deaths are a reminder of the invisible struggle many
face and the quote devastation that can result for a parent to come to a place in which they
harm their children in this way indicates that their mental health struggles were severe and in
need of immediate supports this would be the third separate incident a suicide at the Austin
parking garage this year northeastern University which owns the building says it's increasing
security and blocking access to the top two floors and definitely a trend.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_136

good evening and guy nelson the woman shot dead in her telling him home yesterday has been
identified as well-known Allen pre-school principal Lynn high saw had been principal at sunny
land elementary school since 2017 she previously worked at schools in Marysville in Kitsap
County I saw that your pets were found dead Thursday in Bellingham home All 3 had been shot
according to law enforcement officials the principal husband was also found at the home
Thursday with a gunshot wound to the head according to the Bellingham Herald is hospitalized
in critical condition the watch can County sheriff's office is considering the case of murder and
attempted suicide.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 8:25 AM

B_DEC_WASH_137

sunny land elementary school Prince Boland lynn Himes sauces dead in what deputies believe
was an attempted murder suicide Orleans school superintendent Craig Baker says districts
counseling and support he will be available to students and staff when school resumes at all.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:12 AM

B_DEC_WASH_138

according to police reports, investigators say they found 85- year-old beverly on her bed with
an electrical cord around her neck and a gun next to her they believe she attempted suicide.
they found a blood-soaked hammer and screwdriver. a body found in the home with multiple
gunshot wounds. her sister angela was shot and fighting for her life. court documents say
investigators found a note inside of her car that says she is not a very nice person. i think she is
ready to evict me and i'm 85 and have nowhere to go. prosecutors are asking the court to hold
140

her on a one million dollars bond. she poses a threat to the community despite having no
criminal history. family of the sisters are trying to raise money to bring her body back to kenya
to be buried.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 7:50 AM

B_DEC_WASH_139

Sunni-led elementary school principal Lynn I'm self is dead what that he believed was an
attempted murder suicide husband is still alive an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound
Bellingham school superintendent Craig Baker says districts counseling and support team will
be available to students and staff when school resumes January 6 10 year-old girl suffered
cardiac arrest and died on flight bound for Seattle last night.

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 27, 2019 • 4:58 PM

B_DEC_WASH_140

flowers stocking up outside of philly him school. the principal killed in a murder suicide. >>> a
protect us protecting the biggest party of the year. the extra security in place for new year's
eve. >>> a mother's worst fear. >> i knew something was not. >> the plea to find out who killed
her son. komo news at 5:00. you can >>> a bellingham community is grieving after a beloved
elementary school principal was shot and killed in a murder suicide attempt. >> flowers lie
outside of the school as the sheriff's office continues the investigation into how this happened.
patrick quinn has more. >> reporter: school is out but amber wilson and her two kids made a
point to stop by anyway to honor the principal who was tragically killed the day after christmas.
>> she helped us so much. this is really hard. it >> reporter: bailey wrote words that she should
not have to use. >> i hope you like it in heaven. >> you miss her? >> yes. >> it is a sad reality for
many kids at the school. 58-year-old lynn heimsoth was shot and killed inside of her home in a
murder suicide attempt. her husband, kevin heimsoth is alive at the hospital and that is the only
person being investigated. so far sheriffs have not found signs of domestic violence in their
history but violence can happen in any household. also, the therapy dog and cat were found
dead. >> when my kids were found to have a difficult time, the pets were there to help them.
>> a familiar scene. the district shared with us this video of the teacher and her dog a year ago.
we watched teachers file in and out as they tried to live without the principal. >> my kids are
already asking me, they don't want to do principal. they wants principal heimsoth. >> kevin
heimsoth is in critical condition. if he survives the case will be processed passed on to the
prosecutors office. from bellingham i am patrick quinn for komo news. it >>> if you are
someone you know is struggling. there is help available. the national suicide prevention lifeline
is open 24 seven. it is free and confidential. that number is one 800 27 and 273-8255.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 27, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_141

141

we now know more about the murder and attempted suicide in bellingham discovered
yesterday morning, bellingham public school says the woman who was killed with semi land
elementary school principal when i'm soft. the sheriff's office says her husband kevin is now in
the hospital under guard, pending criminal charges in a message from the district. the
superintendent says principal i'm soft was a passionate equity driven instructional leader who
loved kids to the core and always give students needs at the center of her work. sheriff's
deputies say they found principal i'm soft shot dead. there has been wounded from what they
believe was a self-inflicted gunshot. deputies also found a dog and a cat were also shot to
death. it's absolute tragedy these people's lives are going to be families are going to be turned
upside down. >> we also want the community to know there's help with 31 suspects domestic
violence. four-course call 911 right right away, but there's also hope confidential assistance. >>
the bellingham school district says lynn i'm soft started her job as a principal in the fall of 2017.
Before that she was the principal of shelters elementary marysville and work for bremerton
north kitsap and south kitsap school districts as an elementary teacher and instructional leader.
counseling and support will be available for students at sunny land elementary on monday.
when they returned to school from winter break.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 27, 2019 • 5:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_183

A barbershop in arkansas is going a cut above. helping its customers open up a little bit about
mental health. picture-perfect barbershop has become a place where anyone can come in and
talk about what they are dealing with. the barbers are all certified to help. they have been
trained to learn keywords to listen for. even what not to say. >>> body language how they
usually react. how they usually come in. they seemed down and we are able to ask them what
is going on? >>> what a cool thing. mental health isn't there only focus. physical health is. they
decided to put together a jim in the back of their shop. so their customers can leave with not
only a clean-cut but a fresh mindset. working out can really help to clear your head. >>> if you
or someone you know is in need of help called the suicide prevention hotline. at the number on
your screen. one 800-8273 8255.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:30 PM

B_DEC_WASH_142

tonight at bellingham community is grieving the loss of an elementary school principal who was
shot and killed in an apparent murder suicide attempt. >> flowers lie outside of her elementary
school where she was the principal. and patrick when reports of the sheriff's office continues
the investigation into what unfolded that left her dead. >>> there is a shadow hanging over this
sundaland elementary. >> my kids are already asking me. they don't want a new principal. >>
amber wilson brought her kids to show the overwhelming love for the principal. >> the dog was
really inspirational. >> circo was a therapy dog at the school. the sheriff's office said they died
side-by-side in an apparent murder suicide attempt. the sheriff said her husband pulled the
trigger before turning the gun on himself.

142

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_143

the county sheriff's office investigating after an elementary school principal was shot and killed
about 10 30 yesterday morning police responded to a call of a murder suicide at home on
marine drive when they arrived they found the woman dead. >> she's been identified as lynn
huynh sought the press principle, it's an island elementary school in bellingham. police say her
husband was found alive with a self-inflicted gunshot wound he was taken to the hospital in
custody and is in critical condition. police have not released his name. deputies also found a
dog a cat dead from gunshot wounds at the scene and counselors will be on hand for students
at sunny land elementary on january 6th, the school is back in session.

143

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 26, 2019 • 11:02 PM

B_DEC_WASH_144

New details and what police are calling a murder and attempted suicide in bellingham. the
school district confirms that the woman killed is one of their elementary school principals.
investigators say sunny land principal lynn heim socket was found dead in her home this
morning along with her therapy dog. last year the bellingham school district put out this video
showcasing her and her dog working at the school. investigators say also found her husband in
the apartment with what appeared to be a self- inflicted did gunshot wound.>> he was still alive
and he is under guard at a local hospital. it is absolute tragedy that these people's lives and
families will be turned upside down. wheels what the community to know that there is help if
anyone suspects domestic violence. >> the form moving to sunny land she was the principal of
school in marysville and worked for bremerton north kitsap and south kitsap school districts is
an elementary teacher and instructional leader. in a letter to families bellingham
superintendent greg baker wrote her death is a profound loss to our sunny land community.
our school district and/or extended community. she was a passionate equity driven
instructional leader. she loved kids to the core and always kept students’ needs at the center of
her work.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 8:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_145

bellingham school principal is dead investigators believe this was a murder-suicide they say
they found the body of 58 year-old Lin Himes within her apartment yesterday she'd been shot
to death her husband also suffering from a gunshot wound believed to be self-inflicted he has
survived and is in custody at the hospital.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 10:10 AM

B_DEC_WASH_146

the principal at Bellingham Sunni-led elementary school was shot to death yesterday walking
County sheriff's office says a 58-year-old woman identified by the school district is old and a
highly sought was found dead in her condo her 56 year-old husband was wounded in what they
believed was a suicide attempt schools superintendent Craig Baker says her death as a
profound loss Sunday when community her school district and our extended community no
word on her husband's condition or what led up to the killing families dealing with his grief
after prosecutors say their two daughters were shocked by their 85 year-old roommate their
pastor Masters goo though is helping them I was kind of in shock I couldn't believe it with Gu
most help her family is now trying to get her body back home to Nairobi working with they can
get embassy in D.C. there is a need for also caught the community wants opponent he's also
rallying those at his church for financial support and on top of all of that but you this sister
Angela was the second person injured in that shooting just recently leaving the hospital at the
same time he saw me Nikos we have to take care of the its future and component the
emotional component some excitement you go home opponent full kind one woman arrested
144

in that double shooting she is due in court on January 6 as comas school Miller recording when
to go fund me account to help with funeral expenses can be found at KOMO news com.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 8:50 AM

B_DEC_WASH_147

among today's top stories sunny land elementary school Prince Boland high socks is dead in
what that he believed was an attempted murder suicide her husband is in under guard at the
hospital with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound willing hamm school superintendent
Craig Baker says districts counseling and support team will be available to students and staff
when school resumes.
KEPR (CBS)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_148

a Bellingham community is grieving after a beloved elementary school principal was shot and
killed in an suicide attempt. >> sunnyside elementary school, sheriff deputies continue their
investigation into how this tragedy happened. patrick quinn has the story from bellingham . >>
school is out at sunny lane elementary, amber wilson and her two kids made a point to stop by
anyway to honor their principal tragically killed the day after christmas . >> it is hard. she
helped us so much. >> flowers and cards are their writing words a seven-year-old son not have
to use. >> i hope you like it in heaven. >> you miss her? >> yes an unfair reality for people at the
Bellingham elementary school, 58-year-old lynn heimsoth was shot and killed inside her home
in an apparent murder suicide attempt. her husband, kevin live at the hospital was the only
person police are investigating. the sheriff told me so far they have not found any signs of
domestic violence in the history but this shows violence can happen in any household. also
found dead, her cat and therapy dog. >> when my kids were having a hard time in school, the
dog was there to comfort them. >> they said the dog was by her side when she died, a familiar
seed. they shared a video a year ago, the duo was threaded into this community. we watched
people come in and out as a community now without their principal. >> it is going to be very
quiet and my kids are already asking me i don't want a new principal you know? i want principal
lynn.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Dec 27, 2019 • 5:00 AM

B_DEC_WASH_149

the wanton county sheriff's office investigating after an elementary school principal was shot
and killed about 10 30 yesterday morning police responded to a call of a murder suicide at a
home on marine drive. when they arrived they found the woman dead she's been identified as
lynn himes off the principal at sunny one elementary school in bellingham. police say her
husband was found alive with a self-inflicted gunshot wound he was taken to the hospital in
custody and is in critical condition right now police have not released his name. deputies also
found a dog and a cat dead from gunshot wounds at the scene counselors will be on hand for
students at sunny land elementary on january 6th, the school is back in session.
145

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 6:55 AM

B_DEC_WASH_150

Sunlen elementary school principal Lynn high himself is dead in what that deputies believe was
an attempted murder suicide yesterday and millions will Super get greg Baker says the District's
counseling and support team will be available to students and staff when school resumes.
AM 860
Dec 27, 2019 • 8:45 AM

B_DEC_OREG_184

opportunity for push back as Marc Cary points other women senators women's commission's
numbs every college campus in the country not a single man center or men's Commission that
I'm aware of in higher education there are significant a disproportionate number of sex
specifics scholarships fellowships awards an issue as for female students and faculty many of
those single-sex female only prep programs now being challenged by 10 on 9 complaints being
flipped because of what's happened over the the decades but going back to for every 100 girls
or women for what everyone 100 girls and women who take A.P. honors courses in our music
there are 54 man who earned an associate's degree for every 100 women _sixty_ _three_ man
for every 100 women Enrolled in graduate schools 73 men for every 100 women 25 to 29 years
old who have at least a master's degree _seventy_ _three_ math bachelor's degree 70 fourman master suite some reform and enrolled in college all 77 the top 10% of their high school
class for every 100 women 79 and take the S.A.T. test for every 100 women 89 and court
doctors degree 90 man who at whose entry into kindergarten is delayed think about this on the
other end up who's ever Lou whose entrance into kindergarten is delayed for every 100 women
and girls 139 man toys for every 100 women in public schools classified as having mental
retardation there's a 140 man who repeat can Garden 145 men who are homeless 154 men
aged 3 to 17 years old diagnosis communication disorders 100 _sixty_ _eight_ man who abused
drugs alcohol 180 men who are problems that cause of 200 men could die by opioid overdose
to order 12 man who were expelled from schools to one 91 man who commit suicide between
the ages of 15 and 19 for every 100 women the 200 _ninety_ _three_ boys so you know you
just might if you have missed I think about it this way if those numbers were reversed would we
be hearing that there's a crisis in education for young women there's a crisis and suicide for
young women and frankly there's a crisis and suicide across the board particularly in wealthier
areas like palo Alto 6 times the national average opiate abuse is interesting how we our sort of
dismissive of the interests of young boys she and men who are suffering in some cases very
self-inflicted damage but damaged on the last that's the numbers were reversed we be saying
we have to think about we need a Commission we need to study we need programs we need a
law we need mentorship we need something those education staffs and those sort of public
health staff men versus women pretty jarring pretty darn say do you really want to do this
game of they do now everything is tit for tat everything is tested he be force fed into someone
to one construct doors a recognition that men and women are different they have different
interests there are worse it is a different distribution of talents in some respects…

146

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 7:46 PM

B_DEC_WASH_151

you guys do know it is national suicide Prevention mom actualy that comes down to the week
and brother may told may come down to the day tomorrow September 10th well they G our
hard news reporter comes in with the story talking about preventing help to prevent because of
the suicide rate of those who were firefighters out there and done that so Volunteer firefighters
who talk about that at 8.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Dec 27, 2019 • 4:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_185

police officers have to be brave and stay calm under pressure. that kind of stress especially
after a long career lead to depression and ptsd and even suicide. there is now a push in
washington to help officers who are struggling.>> reporter:. a cop for more than 35 years seth
hansen has seen it all. >>> everything from the car accidents to homicides to suicides. you have
to suck it up and go on to the next one. the next one is going to come. they don't stop. it never
shuts down. >> reporter: he is retired but his experiences stick with him. the weeks he spent
helping the lakewood police department in 2009. 14 of their officers were murdered at a coffee
shop. >>> that is something that impacted me today. even talking now i can feel it right in my
gut. >>> we are starting to crack that egg. and look inside and realize we have professions that
are profoundly impacted by trauma and susceptible to the impacts of the trauma.>> reporter:
the net with the fraternal order of police is organizing an effort to get more peer counselors like
seth hansen to visit police agencies in times of trauma. >>> to pay for it she started a signature
drive to get a new personalized license plate in the statement the proceeds would support the
mental health needs of law enforcement. >>> there is no method for that. this would allow that
funding source so we can build those services. >>> you have to go from a homicide scene and
drive home to my family. when you walk in the door is like going to the next call. you cannot
bring it with you. if you do it is horribly destructive.>> reporter: seth hansen get training on how
to help fellow officers deal with the stress of the job. since most agencies do not offer that kind
of support he is backing the push for the new plate. >>> you will keep good people that might
otherwise leave. you will keep people from committing suicide. you're going to get better
service out of your officers. >> reporter: >>> supporters of the plates are gathering signatures
to make this happen. they need at least 3500 to have the department of licensing move
forward with the idea. if you would like to sign it head to kgw.com and click on new slings. >>>
if you or someone you know is dealing with thoughts of suicide there are people available to
help and talk to you. the national number for the national suicide prevention lifeline is one 800
273-8255.
KFFX (FOX)
Dec 27, 2019 • 9:05 AM

B_DEC_WASH_152

new this morning out of Bellingham... police there say a man is in custody - suspected of
shooting and killing his wife in a condominium building. it happened early Thursday morning...
147

initially - officers responded to a report of a murder- suicide. when they arrived they found the
58-year-old woman dead, but the husband - whose name has not yet been released - was
found alive with a self-inflicted gunshot wound. right now he is recovering - and an
investigation continues.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 27, 2019 • 11:35 AM

B_DEC_OREG_186

…research this year found that there's an alarming rise in suicide in the U.S. across all age
demographics but particularly among teenagers in particular among teenage girls between to
2010 and 2017 there's a two under 68% increase in suicide for girls between the ages of 10 and
12 now we don't know why this is happening but I just say that that's it you can still intervene in
a way that is a hopeful one is you know remove up so was my items that they could potentially
used to harm themselves and the other is talking to them about you know concerns there's this
myth out there that you know if you talk to somebody about suicide that you create suicidal
ideation and that's not true the evidence doesn't bear that out and there's a lot of bystander
intervention techniques you can use now the golf cart and a slightly up no but the federal
communications Commission recently unanimously voted to create a nationwide Suisse Side
hotline with a three-digit number 98 it will go for public comment the next couple months and
they're hoping to roll that out in the next couple years Yeah it's an interesting time the story
when you brought up after the break the biggest stories of the past 10 years as we head into a
new deck kay stay with that this is science Friday.
News Radio KEX
Dec 27, 2019 • 4:45 PM

B_DEC_OREG_187

… also just put out there the be the left pretending that suicide by gun is now a problem they
care people about he might do nt Fo yelling at cops just classrooms last weekend is to kill
themselves so that's just keep that in mind some of that left really feels about law enforcement
suicide but to say they care so much about the suicide epidemic in this country the left is also
the political party that believes overwhelmingly in physician assisted suicide so they think you
should be able to take her own life their objection it seems to me to be the means by which one
takes their own life not that we just don't want people taking their own lives I have much more
respect they're saying we have a suicide epidemic we take care of that across the board and
every life is precious including the unborn and every life should be protected by the state that's
not what they say other worried about the suicide epidemic in this country from guns they
worry about other than the rest of it is not really a conversation we have that think about how
much attention the mainstream media really gives to the opioid epidemic which kills over 7000
people here when was ask yourself is for all of the media gnashing of teeth and all my gosh and
guns guns guns all this stuff you've seen in the last 90 days how many stories have you seen
from aid non Fox media channel news channel doing with the opioid epidemic you know why
they don't care about the opioid epidemic because it is predominantly suburban and rural
whites who are dying and that's not a narrative that the left cares about because it doesn't
allow them to feel Superior doesn't allow them to feel morally righteous and some other
148

psychological component to why it Palestinian explained that for more people are dying from
these substances…
KOBI
Dec 28, 2019 • 11:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_188

i'm devin gooden. all northbound lanes were closed at milepost 24 for about 4 hours tonight.
that's our top story at 11. according to o-s-p, the freeway was shut down just before 7 p-m.
troopers tell nbc5 news they're investigating it as a suicide. cars were being detoured in the
area... all lanes reopened just a few minutes ago. if you or someone you know is struggling with
thoughts of suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline
at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected
to a crisis counselor.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Dec 28, 2019 • 10:20 AM

B_DEC_WASH_153

today we're spending some time and dream land we've had bad dreams following her being
chased or whatever but for people with posttraumatic stress disorder those streams can take
on who hold different character trauma nightmares are almost 80 video tape read experiencing
of be traumatic event and it's often very vivid and the Awakening years sweaty your heart
racing it's real adrenaline store this is Dr Murray rascon he's a psychiatrist at the V.A. hospital in
Seattle and professor at the University of Washington school of medicine he got involved in
research on PTSD after he started working with a group of African-American Vietnam veterans
in 1994 I'm the only white Jewish leader of a large black veterans ever expanding support group
he quickly learned from patients such as a that name done that of all the symptoms that
tormented these men the trama nightmares were among the worst for die in 1968 during the
tet offensive fuel is aid rifle and but his job was to be be the assistant gunner for be machine
gun operator did the gunner and his unit and they were they were very close friends and on a
night time quote unquote search and destroy mission they walked into I am a well-placed Viet
Cong ambush and kind in in the confusion around from his and 16 hit his best friend the
governor he mistakenly fired around from his own iPHONE that's right so bret so but they were
around from his own rifle hit his best friend who died and this would be replayed in
excruciating detail during this promenade nightmare but even after Don had imbibed might
have to pay full court of vodka just try to get some sleep and not only was he did was he
Awakens hand and intense adrenaline storm but he also had tremendous remorse to dine came
to my office and he was distressed and had some fairly intense suicidal ideation so I said well
I've got to do something rascon started looking into medications that might be able to help
these threats he found few satisfying answers Don was already on the standard medications
better suggested for PTSD but none of them helped alcohol was a bang and to make it more
dramatic he was the first african-american member of the ironworkers Union here in seattle so
his daytime job but climbing up the girders building the scene a high-rise buildings with us to
stand Short amount of alcohol on board just calm down this hyper arousal rascon homed in on
those adrenaline's storms and other bets would wake from their nightmares sweating buckets
149

ready to fight or flee the brain's version of adrenaline is called nor epinephrine rascon reason
that if he could tamp down that chemical maybe he could use a patient's nightmares part an
effort has two different access points in the brain there's Alpha one receptors and beta
receptors so I said G 8 Here's an idea a give done program wall to block debater except so I did
because back two weeks later and says is quote stuck we're going in the wrong direction my
nightmares or even worse so this was a bit disheartening to me but I didn't know from work
we've done Alzheimer's disease that the big receptor for our effort and the Alpha one receptor
for our and efren often work in opposite directions so I thought that if blocking debaters Sept
made the nightmares worse and blocking the Alpha one receptor may lessen the intensity of
the nightmares rascon happened no of the drug that party did that a common blood pressure
medication called praises of with prison after started a low-dose and work your way up I'm
done I go up to I think it was 6 milligrams and and when to group done gets up and group walks
over shake my hand said Doc its first good night's sleep I've had since the Redskins' first thought
was well this must be a placebo effect he couldn't believe he got such a dramatic response so
he approached another that in the group a guy named scott who's recurring nightmares we
played it terrifying memory of the North Vietnamese charging about alive which happened and
one of his jobs this was a combat engineer was to place the claim more anti personnel mines in
the right position to to fighto fun these attacks and in his dream he placed the Clay mors in the
wrong direction so the nba came came through the wire and they were on hand to hand
combat and then he way he wake up and it's pouring Sweat with his heart racing 120 beats per
minute and he was the second better idea if present to and he got better as well and both
diamonds guy he also had suicidal aviation and what once they have been the miners
disappeared no more suicidal aviation and they were able to stop alcohol so neither one of
them had a drink after 23 years how durable was response with nightmares you think Louis
comfort earlier in the day and as long as they took their presence at the members of ought it's
not a cure it's it's more like insulin with diabetes and many veterans say well in all of this real
then they stopped the present and the members come back what was that like to see a
dramatic response well it was you know it's been hard to believe it was well probably punch my
personality made me feel terrific 4 maybe 5 minutes then went on to the next problem rascon
kept testing the praises and conducting early studies with his bets word spread about this
cheap drug and only a few pennies a pill that seemed to be treating this implacable symptoms
of PTSD so at this point over the last 3 years I'm longing for veterans with a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder in the V.A. health care system that's about 700000 veterans about a
100000 have been described prize but they still hadn't done a big definitive study to cement
praise listen as the go to treatment for trauma nightmares that Was the next obvious step
whose side do big multi centre trial in the day for 6 months you want a 50 50 chance see any
prisoner will see them and we're pretty confident that he would work better than the cveland
turned out didn't the study published in the New England Journal of Medicine failed to show
the praise said was effective for the hundreds of vets in the trial rascon says he was shocked
and dejected so him his collaborators went back to their successful older studies to find the
disconnect they focused on who was enrolled in the research the new big study had tight
restrictions on who could participate the people with the worst PTSD symptoms were excluded
so people with an alcohol addiction and other participants all reported having nightmares many
did not have the characteristics of those early cases jolting awake in the middle of the dream
150

drenched in Sweat heart racing unable to get back to sleep rascon believes praise listen works
now it's a matter of finding out what kind of person he works for he can do that rascon may
have a real breakthrough one that has already turned around the lives of many veterans
they've been able both to sustain a normal family relationships and the ability to enjoy some
things in life times gotten very involved in his church so these scenes they I'm a wise elder
rather then someone who was alcohol.

151

FM News 101 KXL
Dec 28, 2019 • 10:43 PM

B_DEC_OREG_189

Meanwhile a David with an update on jeffrey epstein first of all you brother Yeah I don't blame
him is worried about safety Yeah I mean his well I'm in the life expectancy just dropped for
everybody with a last name at steve apparently but his younger brother is fearing for his safety
now Mark Epstein his name he wants to know whether his brother actually committed suicide
as was that has been reported or was murdered because he does feel like his own life is in
danger I don't blame him no not at all said he wants to know if it's suicide or a homicide
because of a homicide than his life may also be in danger homicide would be because his
brother knew too much and whoever did it to his brother might think that he knows too much
or that he knows too much even though his life was entirely different the his brother's its Gulf if
the okay if you're just going along with an area of Yeah I've seen and skilled a lot of people do
believe that like what does the brother no that the que you know the other one is setting aside
conspiracy theories for a second to just because you know his last name is steven because his
brother was whose brother was I mean I I would be afraid that some night is going to try like
exact revenge on him Yes I see that and then have to be an international goal the ball people
who were engaged in this pedophile sex ring with jeffrey epstein it could just be somebody
trying to do you know trying to get revenge or whatever I think you wonder sometimes what
his brother was doing and to be I don't know how close they were not close they were but your
brothers buy an island somewhere in the sky the property in Midtown manhattan he's got all
this stuff going on in these you know it's one of those things he read aloud at that time but it's
not fresh in my mind so I'm just going by direct election of reading about it it didn't seem they
were that close clinton a long long period time about talking things like that I'm maybe he
misremembered Roger Clemens there but that is I remember reading about the relationship
that David had something more to bring the table the lawyer Yes of Christmas well that's it I got
inspired over the weekend and I didn't want to share a little Christmas like own about jeffrey
have steen Oh boy justin the spirit of the holidays I honestly am not joking I ever heard I haven't
either you clinching the little guy here I am okay I think we have a little company meant role it
was twilight in prison and all through the jail security measures were starting to fail we are now
learning of serious irregularities at this facility guards were all mapping the cameras turned off
and somewhere mrs clinton was starting to cough up the road such a clatter with the sound of
a neck phones starting to shatter Say was a suicide but there are so many clues just look at
what happened with ABC news he'd had all Hey it might have been hillary up Prince or else I
didn't switch at the time but we all know that abstinence did not kill himself.
News Radio KEX
Dec 28, 2019 • 1:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_190

the fbi is reportedly launching an investigation into Jeffrey Epstein's associates specifically
british social like elaine Maxwell she's been named in a civil lawsuit but has been charged in the
team pursuit of underage girls several women accused Maxwell helping manage the financiers
sex ring girls Maxwell has denied the allegations Epstein died of an apparent suicide in his jail
cell in August while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.
152

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 28, 2019 • 3:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_154

on Thursday 50 year-old Blenheim soft was shot and killed inside her home in an apparent
murder-suicide attempt sheriff's office says her husband Kevin Hynes says still alive the hospital
is the only person police are investigating the shares to me so far they haven't found any signs
of domestic violence and the couple's history but added this case shows violence can happen in
any household.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 28, 2019 • 8:34 AM

B_DEC_WASH_155

a bellingham community is grieving. a beloved elementary school principal was shot and killed
in an apparent murder suicide attack. >>> flowers are outside the elementary school white the
sheriff's office continues the investigation into how the tragedy happened. >> reporter: school
is out at sunnyland elementary. and amber wilson and her two kids made it a point to stop by
and honor the principal killed the day after christmas. >> she helped us so much. >> flowers and
cards lined the front step. bailey writing words a 7-year- old shouldn't have to use. >> i hope
you like it in heaven. >> you miss her, huh? >> uh-huh. >> reporter: 58-year-old was shot and
killed inside her home in an apparent murder suicide attempt. her husband is alive at the
hospital and is the only person police are investigating. police have not found signs of domestic
violence in the couple's history. the cat and therapy dog were also found dead. >> my kids were
having a hard time in school. and the dog was there to comfort them. >> reporter: the dog was
by her side when she died, a familiar seen. and this video was from a year ago. we watched
teachers file in and out to mourn as a community now without their principal. >> it's going to be
very quiet. and my kids are already, i don't want a new principal. i want principal lynn. >> and
the houston is in critical condition. if he survives they'll pass on the case to the prosecutor's
office for potential charges. there'll be counselors on hand when school is back in session.
patrick quinn, komo news.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Dec 27, 2019 • 11:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_156

tonight flowers lie outside sunnyland elementary school in bellingham as the community
continues to mourn a beloved principal after police say her husband killed her and then tried to
take his own life. deputies found principal lynn heimsoth shot to death at her home along
marine drive yesterday morning. her therapy dog and cat were also found dead. detectives say
her 56-year-old husband had a self-inflicted gunshot wound but he survived and is now in the
hospital. formal criminal charges are now pending. >>> if you or someone you know is
struggling, there is help available. the national suicide prevention lifeline is open 24/7 and it is
free and confidential. that number is there on your screen, 1-800-273-8255.

153

KMVU (FOX)
Dec 27, 2019 • 10:05 PM

B_DEC_OREG_191

scary moments on south pacific highway this afternoon... after an r-v-t-d bus... hit a man. it
happened on south pacific highway near harry and david's corporate office after 1 this
afternoon. 'it sounds like the pedestrian kinda charged out at the bus, we're trying to figure
that out right now. doesn't sound like the pedestrian was in the roadway until the bus went by.'
no one else was hurt. passengers on the bus were picked up by a different bus and taken to
their next stop. both police and rvtd are conducting their own investigations and reviewing
surveillance footage. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... there
is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. that's 1800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Dec 29, 2019 • 6:14 PM

B_DEC_OREG_192

New numbers and overdoses are forcing people to reevaluate their feelings. the data shows
nearly all deaths from opioids are accidental. not from people dying by suicide. northwest
seriously spoke to one advocate about the fight to keep those suffering alive. >> she never
leaves work. >> that's my injectable. >> or home without it. >> i also have nasal. >> she always
has lifesaving opioid overdose medication on hand. she never knows where she will have to use
it but after 50 years working in the field she says death is all too common. >> my heart is
breaking. i am losing someone i know several times a month. >> new analysis published in the
journal of american medical association puts a number on the death toll. as is more than 47,000
people die from opioid overdose but in roughly 9 out of every 10 cases, it was an accident. just
four percent of cases were from suicide. intentional rate than seen in previous studies. >> for
the most part drug users don't want to die. people are using drugs to cope and it is not
necessary like they're trying to harm themselves by doing it. >> and people typically get there
supplies. >> you near 14th and main in downtown portland there is a safe place to help.
canceling friends and clients struggling with addiction. and suggestions to prevent accidental
death. >> making sure you are not using substances alone so if something goes sideways you
have help. >> plus carry narcan to reverse an overdose. they encourage addicts to get him
medication ibuprofen or methadone to treat the disorder. some rules to live by to stay alive,
and not become an accidental statistic. >> i think the idea that these people are humans who
are trying to survive and need our help is something we are slowly coming to understand as a
society. and this is a disease, not a moral failing. >> the author of the study in the medical
journal says establishing a death as a suicide can be difficult. medical examiner's have a tough
task of figuring out a persons intent, guns, not overdoses are the leading reason for suicide. we
showcase possible solutions we have recover northwest reports every uesday and thursday
right here on katu news during our 4 o'clock newscast. we also post resources on
www.katu.com.

154

FM News 101 KXL
Dec 29, 2019 • 8:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_193

A powerful psychedelic drug suicide in administered by science is aimed at helping people
suffering from depression anxiety and addiction you ever have a day where you wake up and I
wish I could have 5 aerial view not all Bush's the craziest thing because that was my favorite
thing they'll the image on the left shows connections within the brain before suicide been on
the right after and student debt is a crisis Americans only 1.5 trillion dollars the burden from
medical students is especially heavy but now one of the country's top schools this come up with
a radical solution the N.Y. viewed school of medicine is now a tuition-free medical school one
day if you're dealing with a patient who can avoid pass something done you might say they saw
me packages for a living.
FM News 101 KXL
Dec 29, 2019 • 8:19 PM

B_DEC_OREG_194

think tanks to me magic mushrooms but as anderson Cooper reported earlier this year these
powerful mind-altering substances are now being study seriously by scientists inside some of
the country's foremost medical research centers they're being used to treat depression anxiety
and addiction the early results are impressive as are the experiences of the study volunteers
who go on a six-hour sometimes terrifying but often life changing psychedelic journey deep into
their own minds you ask me you want to do it again last held home I want to get it was really a
bad bone was all for it the entire time other than the very end and the very beginning I was
crying Corinne McLaughlin is talking about the pollution Jenny experience she had here at Johns
Hopkins University after being given a large dose of suicide and psychedelic agent in magic
mushrooms as part of an ongoing clinical trial we tell people that their experiences may vary
from very positive to do yet transcendent and lovely to lose really help real experiences L'Oréal
as fight mean and experience as you have ever had in your life that Sciences Roland Griffiths for
nearly two decades now he and his colleague matthew johnson had been giving what they call
her rowing doses of suicide in more than 350 volunteers many struggling with addiction
depression and anxiety can Intel who is going to have a bad experience who will have
transcendent explores our ability to predict that is almost none at all really vent about a third
will better at hide to say they have something like that when folks would call a bad trip but
most of those folks will actually saying and that was key in experience career took off when I
was a smoker for 46 years said she tried everything to quit before being given suicide in at
Johns hopkins last year so sighs in itself is non addictive you remember what like specifically
what you were seeing or its ceiling this room were clouds like heavy rain clouds and gradually
they were lowering and I thought I was going to suffer from the clouds that was more than a
year ago she says she hasn't smoked since study she took party is still ongoing but in an early
your small study just 15 long-term smokers 80% had quit 6 months after taking a suicide that's
double the rate of any over the counter smoking-cessation product they come to a profound
shift of world view essentially shifting sense of self the don't think they see their life a different
word in their world view changes and and they are less identified with that self-narratives
people might use the term ego and that creates a sense of freedom and not just with smokers
155

beer usually cocktails usually vodka sodas to kill Sony's discussions with John Custer accomplice
was drinking a staggering 20 cocktails night and had been warned he was slowly killing himself
he decided to enroll in another so one-sided trial at New York University during one suicide in
session he was flooded with powerful feelings in images from his past stuff for come up that I
haven't thought of since they happen to old memories you hadn't remembered came back to I
felt you know a lot of shame embarrassment throughout one of the sessions that my drinking
and How bad I felt from my parents to put up with for all of us he took so we saw in 2016 he
says he hasn't had a drink since you ever have a day where you wake up you know I wish I could
have fought during our view never not at all not at all which is the craziest thing because that
was my favorite thing to do using psychedelic drugs and therapy is not new I were hundreds of
scientific study is done on a similar compound lsd in the 19 fifty's and sixty's was tested on
more than 40000 people song and controlled therapeutic settings like this one but there were
also abuses U.S. military and CIA experimenting with lsd sometimes without patients'
knowledge fear over rampant drug use and the spread of the counterculture movement not to
mention Harvard professor Timothy Leary urging people to turn on tune in drop out led to a
clampdown this nation beige is a major crisis in terms of the increasing use of drugs particularly
among our young people off in 1970 President Richard Nixon signed the controlled substances
Act and nearly all scientific research and us into the effects of psychedelics on people Staal
wasn't until 2000 the scientist Roland Griffiths won FDA approval to study suicide this whole
area of research has been in a deep freeze for 25 or 30 years and so as a scientist I sometimes
feel like rip Van Winkle off and what you saw results yet that red lights start flashing this is
extraordinarily interesting is unprecedented and the capacity of the human organs and to
change it just it was astounding and it seems like you were endorsing us for everybody Yeah
Let's be really clear on that we hear very aware of the risks and would not recommend that
people simply go out and do this the griffiths in Johnson's screen now he was psychotic
disorders with close relatives of had schizophrenia or bipolar disorder these study volunteers at
Johns Hopkins argue in weeks of intensive counseling before and after the 6 hours suicide
experience so aside his given a carefully controlled setting 1.3 times today they say there's not
been a single serious adverse outcome on Nantucket and we were told we couldn't recorded
anyone participating in the study while they were on assignment because it might impact their
experience we were shown how it begins with Al assad it questions we hope you lay on a couch
with a blindfold shut out distractions put headphones on and headphones playing a mix of coral
and classical music a psychedelic sound track with a train died Mary cousin Monica watching
over you who case to give me your hand so I'm gonna take your hand the everything is done
the same way it was for the lst experiments scientists conducted in the 19 fifty's and sixty's so
the most dramatic results have been with terminal cancer patients struggling with anxiety and
paralyzing depression start seeing in the colors and geometric designs in a cycle of this is so
cool and how lovely and then both additions began I very pop this was diagnosed with stage 3
lung cancer in 2013 during hurt suicide concession she found herself trapped in a nightmare her
mind created and anxious and prehistoric they arin the land and nurses met with pickaxes Just
slamming on the rocks so it has filled absolutely real you absolutely real I was being shown the
truth our reality of life is meaningless we have no purpose and then I look I'm still like a witness
beautiful shimmering great to wall and then it was sour tone and was booming bright here right
now that was being said Yes you are alive chief right here right now because that's how you
156

hang out and dad is my mantra right Hey you're Yes day it seems so implausible me the single
experience caused by a molecule right congested your body could transform your outlook on
something as profound as death that's the kind of amazing author Michael Pollan road about
suicide and studies in a best-selling book called how to change your mind as part of his research
he tried so decided himself with the help of an underground guy with to cover things cancer
patients were saying I touch the face of God you were skeptical about when you hear phrases
like that Yeah love is the most important thing in the universe when someone tells me that was
like noon in case you don't you don't go over some of the phrases an inmate gives me the
willies is a writer and I really struggle
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 29, 2019 • 5:00 PM

B_DEC_OREG_195

good evening i'm cassidy delamarter. illinois valley fire says the crashed happened on highway
1-99 near reeves creek at 8-15 last night. these are photos from the i-v-f-d media department
from the crash. the cyclist was flown by air to the hospital. oregon state police is still
investigating the crash. oregon state police is still investigating last night's incident on i-5. all
northbound lanes at milepost 24 were closed for four hours. the closure started at 7 p-m. o-s-p
says the shut down happened because of a crash involving a person. someone jumped onto i-5
from the overpass. o-s-p says that person did not survive. if you or someone you know is
considering suicide. get help right away. on your screen you can see the national suicide
prevention lifeline. you can call at any time.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 29, 2019 • 6:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_157

They always have a nine-story told Boston parking garage planning to make modifications after
mother killed her two young children and then herself happy for something on Christmas day
northeastern University which owns the garage says the changes will include songs to deter
suicide attempts the garages decided to previous serious times this year.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 30, 2019 • 1:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_158

Bellingham man suspected of killing his wife there have been attempting to kill himself with
your vote we had about the murder just after 3 a.m. on December 26th he tweets went out on
a Twitter account and Kevin Hynes sauce made to the NRA and the President saying he just felt
this and Emily couldn't have done it without a gun among other disturbing remarks.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 30, 2019 • 5:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_159

the Bellingham man suspected of killing his wife their pets and attempting to kill himself
appeared to have tweeted about the murder just after 3 a.m. on December 26th to tweet went
157

out on a Twitter account and Kevin Hynes soft name one was replied to a tweet from the
Senate majority leader both of the president's account and the NRA where he thinks the NRA
and broke I just killed my whole family and I couldn't have done it without a gun.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Dec 30, 2019 • 3:24 PM

B_DEC_WASH_160

Christmas is over so it's time to throw out those Christmas trees right well not so fast at least
some are being put to a great use in central texas being made into canes for disabled veterans
jamie well was initially put out the call I never expected it to get this big but the bigger gifts
they're happier I'm getting and got big fast around a 1000 trees being sent to Copperas Cove
Texas where will this works and down into the canes these says the work has saved him to do I
was in a very dark place in my life and it actually brought me back from the brink of suicide is
Post Christmas wish this year I don't want this to stop one this to keep going all your long cane
for veterans has enough trees for now but now they're running short of supplies they need
things like sandpaper knives grinders and Polly year of Fame so all those old trees can be made
into new canes.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 30, 2019 • 7:20 PM

B_DEC_WASH_161

today we're spending some time and dream land we've had bad dreams following her being
chased whatever but for people with posttraumatic stress disorder those streams can take on a
whole different character trauma nightmares are almost a video tape really experiencing of be
traumatic event and it's often very vivid and the awakened thing you're sweaty your heart
racing it's real adrenaline store this is Dr Murray rascon he's a psychiatrist at the V.A. hospital in
Seattle and professor at the University of Washington school of medicine he got involved in
research on PTSD after he started working with a group of African-American Vietnam veterans
in 1994 I'm the only white Jewish leader of a large black veterans ever expanding support group
he quickly learned from patients such as that name done that of all the symptoms that
tormented these men the trauma nightmares were among the worst friends in 1968 during the
tet offensive fuel is aid rifle them but his job was to be be the assistant gunner for be machine
gun operator did the governor and his unit and they were there were very close friends and on
a night time quote unquote search and destroy mission they walk Cantu am a well-placed Viet
Cong ambush and are kind in in the confusion around for his M16 hit his best friend the
governor he mistakenly fired rounds from his own iPHONE that's right so bret so they were
around from his own rifle hit his best friend who died and this would be replayed in
excruciating detail during this trauma a nightmare but even after Don had imbibed might have
to pay full court of Bach just Try to get some sleep and not only was he did was he awakened
him and intense adrenaline storm but he also had tremendous remorse to dine came to my
office and he was distressed and had fairly intense suicidal ideation so I said well I've got to do
something rascon started looking into medications that might be able to help these bats he
found few satisfying answers Don was already on the standard medications better suggested
for PTSD but none of them helped alcohol was a factor and to make it more dramatic
158

he was the first african-american member of the ironworkers Union here in seattle so his
daytime job but climbing up the girders building these high-rise buildings with a substantial
amount of alcohol on board just calm down this hyper arousal rascon homed in on those
adrenaline storms and other bets would wake from their nightmares sweating buckets freedom
fighter fleet the brain's version of adrenaline is called nor epinephrine rascon reason that if he
could tamp down that chemical maybe he could use the patience nightmares part an effort has
two different access points in the brain there's Alpha one receptors and beta receptors so I said
Gee Here's an idea a give done program all to block debater except so I did because back two
weeks later and says is quote stuck we're going the wrong direction my nightmares or even
worse so this was a bit disheartening to me but I didn't know from work we've done
Alzheimer's disease that the big receptor for our effort and the Alpha one receptor for our
friend often work in opposite directions so I thought that if blocking the Beitar Sept made the
nightmare is worse than blocking the Alpha one receptor may lessen the intensity of the
nightmares Raskin happened no of the drug it already did that a common blood pressure
medication called praises of with prison after started a low-dose and work your way up I'm
done I go up to I think it was 6 milligrams and 20 group or die gets up and group walks over
shakes Miami said its first good night's sleep but had since the mom Redskins' first thought was
well this must be a placebo effect he couldn't believe that such a dramatic response so he
approached another event in the group a guy named scott who's recurring nightmares we
played a terrifying memory of the North Vietnamese charging about a lot which happened and
one of his jobs this was a combat engineer was to place the claim more antipersonnel mines in
the right position to to fight all Fo these attacks and in his dream he placed the Clay mors in the
wrong direction so the nba came came through the wire and they were on hand to hand
combat and thing he way he wake up and it's impornt Sweat with his heart racing 120 beats per
minute and he was the second better idea if prison to and he got better as well and both done
scott he also had suicidal aviation and what once they have been the miners disappeared no
more suicidal aviation and they were able to stop alcohol so neither one of them had a drink
after 23 years how durable was response with nightmares and they go away temper earlier
what did they as long as they took that prism the members of ought it's not a cure it's it's more
like insulin with diabetes and many veterans say well in all of this real then they stopped the
present and The virus come back what was that like to see that dramatic response well it was
you know it's been hard to believe he was well probably punch my personality made me feel
terrific 4 or maybe 5 minutes then went on to the next problem Rask and kept testing the
praises and conducting early studies with his that's a word spread about this cheap drug and
only a few pennies a pill that seemed to be treating this implacable symptoms of PTSD so at this
point over the last 3 years I'm longing for veterans with a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress
disorder in the V.A. health care system that's about 700000 veterans about a 100000 have been
described praise but they still hadn't done a big definitive study to cement praise listen as the
go to treatment for trauma nightmares that was the next obvious step recited do big multi
centre trial in the V.A. for 6 months you want a 50 50 chance see any prisoner will see them and
we're pretty confident that he would work better than the cveland turned out it didn't the
study published in the New England Journal of Medicine failed to show the prison was effective
for the hundreds of vets in the trial rascon says he was shocked and dejected so him his
159

collaborators went back to their successful older studies to find the disconnect they focused on
who was enrolled in a research the new big study had tight restrictions on who could
participate the people with the worst PTSD symptoms were excluded so people with an alcohol
addiction and other disciplines all reported having nightmares many did not have the
characteristics of those early cases jolting awake in the middle of the dream drenched in Sweat
heart racing unable to get back to sleep rascon believes craziness in the works now it's a matter
of finding out what kind of person he works for if he can do that rascon may have a real
breakthrough one that has already turned around the lives of many veterans they've been able
both to sustain a normal family relationships and the ability to enjoy some things in life Don's
gotten very involved in his church so these scenes the wise elder rather then someone who was
alcohol abusing and irritable and OSCE scary and terrified himself so he give an anecdote his of
when every anybody came over to visit his House when he was still living in Seattle before he
was on the present he would leave the back door and go hide in the bushes they're able to
relate to grandchildren they're both very people oriented people and when now know they're
doing they're doing well in and you know they would be dead by now you divide their own
hand or by an alcohol-induced body degeneration and or around particular accident and don't
know about your mind I don't know that by heart and noted that much I have to say this to the
doctor saved my life Murray rascon is a researcher and clinician at the V.A. Puget sound and
you W school of medicine.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 30, 2019 • 1:50 PM

B_DEC_WASH_162

every time there's a mass shooting in this country there is a push to pass a brand new laws but
are there any laws that might have prevented things like the tragedy in virginia Beach virginia I
have a unique opportunity today want I don't get very often a welcoming Chris Brown who's
the President of the Brady campaign Chris welcome to the program thank you hard for the
pleasure to be here now in the interest of full disclosure because I believe in being honest
people should tell you that I own guns I used guns and then my own guns since I was a kid it
was back when you can still do that I carry a gun every single day I believe in the second
amendment I believe that confers an individual right and I don't believe that adding one more
law is going to change anything but I'm willing to be persuaded on give you a great opportunity
as well persuade me that in the country that if you count all the state local and federal laws it's
about 20000 rules regulations and laws on guns could we add one more and stop terrible things
from happening like kwet what happened in Virginia Beach I think it's a compliment that thing
that half half ban them I would die hard that not much distinguishes you from many of the
people who work at brady we q have many got no earthly people hopefully in the second
amendment and you served our country with honor and distinction he work as part of Brady
jim brady with the Republican and Ghana learned though sara that they're not doing a whole
lot the outbreak of I didn't view of what the appropriate solution as to why it an epidemic of
gun violence in the country and nothing uniquely American problem Museum of Art 8000
people in that country every year dying from gun violence a day Chris can we buy some those
numbers up though because you know that I know the numbers pretty well two thirds of that
number of suicides and that play well but if you save we had good gun control than we would
160

have many suicides South korea actually has a higher suicide rate in America and they have very
stringent gun laws there you're almost not allowed to own a gun as a private citizen so before
we get to tied up in that what the law change with made a difference last week because the
man who shot all those people and killed all those people was not precluded from buying a gun
because of domestic violence or felony Conviction our trip to a mental hospital so what new
law would have made any difference at all and well let me tell you about a couple but off so
admired Fang if you want to address the epidemic we can get and say that there is and I am one
of the typical law or policy event they unfair when we have traffic fatalities and 15 even say he
fell through the only solution we've said that there's people that that their bumper rails we
have to take a similar approach here Let's look at the fact that what happened in Virginia each
we know that this individual had a silent third and we know that he had extended magazine
extended magazine and a hallmark you'll often find is that mass shooting and one can question
why I think the answer is pretty obvious because the an extended magazine allow you to shoot
rapidly and not have the paused to reload more like Chris christie was not miss state things I
have guns they have magazines they change very quickly and you do have to reload because
one all the ball is gone from the magazine you have to put a new magazine and and I can do
that in less than half a second so if this man had not had extended magazines say he'd been
limited to 8 shots 10 shots various laws exist like that how much of a difference would it have
made if the man had dropped a bag reloaded Mag and kept on shooting he could have shot just
as many bullets any minor been slowed down by a second or two on each change but I don't
think what made a difference because he was shooting somewhere around 10 to 11 minutes at
second can make all the difference and it kind of situation I think human life deserve better
second what I know how to make a difference how would it have made a difference if he shot
with 10 round magazines and instead of having an extended magazine was 14 or 15 rounds so
so he uses to magazines Should 30 bullets or 3 magazines Should 30 bullets no effective
difference in loss of life is there actually if you talk to sharpshooter Yes there are you can't
people who go and that person was no different case Q with the intent to kill a lot of people
youth with larger magazine because they get nervous it's a very difficult time and that I'm
paunch firmly loading into when a lot of mass shooter get taken down bucket gabby gifford
what happened there that person had an extended magazine he got all of the original bullet out
from the first magazine paused to reload and not if when he was taken down I can tell you that
the parents of the girl who was shot by the 13th Bowl let in not extended magazine I wished he
had only had a 10 round magazines tara so you like many like magazine limits cannot propose a
change that I think would make a difference and I'll give you some numbers to because like
numbers it sounds like 98% what okay I want to get your facts that include numbers 98% of the
mass shootings in the last 50 years have occurred in gun-free zones only 2% of the mass
shootings defined by the fbi for shot 4 people shot more in the last 50 years have been in war
zones for people to carry guns for their own protection virginia's very friendly toward guns and
God bless him for that but that building was absolutely off-limits for everyone to carry except
law enforcement which man when he walked into the building he knew that he had a building
full of defenseless people how about we get rid of gun-free zones and say we should have more
places where people can carry legally and when when there's an attack there's somebody
capable of responding to that seems so I'm told you not really want to hear I want and it did
you go to vegas where the over 50 people were shot and killed after that shooting by any
161

chance I didn't go there reporter but I've been down there are plenty of times I know the hotel
well and notice for us so Yeah That make them and their families and and I'm there and I'm like
Yeah Chris hold on a second I'm going to challenge you on that as well we'll be back in a
moment.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 30, 2019 • 12:53 PM

B_DEC_WASH_163

Let's talk a little about the state of research first of all was legal for you to take site cell
assignment Muslims just because your researchers actually I did in the underground so it's not
something that I can said I think everybody should follow but I didn't because I felt was really
important for me if I wanted like explores events this to actually see what it would be like
myself you broke the law Yeah and it is God's common in a rare research war you like and you
allowed to go one and and keep researching this what happens you said Wow clinics to do
illegal things that are not setting up anything definitely not sitting up anything we go I think
away it gave me is this sense of what what might be possible for other people and so if we
could and I honestly did to see if I thought it was worth my time and commitment to really do
the research and what I came away from them where was the sense that while there's
something big and offal here that really deserve some serious funded above ground
scientifically rigorous research studies and so my hope is to develop a research center at the
University of Washington where we could Both figure out how to really do this right and make
it available in a way that would benefit the most most people in a doctor my 8 parents should
great drug that in my head that I should be wary of short cuts and Yes so if I were open to
psychotherapy Yeah would that be the preferred way he did it to make a change in how I
looked at my my purpose my fears and my ego what would be better because the beginning of
the making some underlying changed and is this is suicidal and more of a quick fix or you don't
even look at it like that Yeah e's down to I'm not sure if we know yet like but I think your
parents are telling you though which is right it is you know looking into your own situation
which is what could psychotherapy really does mean that that is how we cope with everything
in life right and I think suicide been high see it as a kind of modality that could enhance the
depth that work or might allows someone to do more work in a shorter period of time what I
see with my patients who have kept many implications of cancer is that the fear factor is so
high that it's really hard for them to do that psychological work because they feel so threatened
on and tainted days like hour by hour basis and so you know if you are a person who finds the
right type of therapist can really diving into that or Yeah I'd say please because I feel like
honestly psychotherapy is under utilized for the people CNN when actually really good
psychotherapy and I like what I think is happening so sodden I think it's changing the structures
of how we perceive ourselves and perceive the world and that this something with a lasting
value Dr Tony Bach oncologist at the University of Washington medical Center palliative care
physician and he's written this piece called what sell side been taught me about dying and dad
and he's calling for more research to be done including the University of Washington Tony box
thank you

162

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Dec 31, 2019 • 7:40 PM

B_DEC_OREG_196

thank you for joining me police Casillas fir trees so all right so anyway so you're talking about
children here and I'll just let that the clip play the only job I think I would like and was Helen
Keller she didn't and did not know I I just love that a stupid Yes your comment is that a plea is
your eyes so stupid comment is to make everybody laugh at anything and deal with things you
age a job why fly made only one way who would do the exact so that's joan rivers and it clip
from the new documentary about her Joan Rivers a piece of work Wow you really gave it to him
but it in his people couldn't hear what he was saying that's not funny if you have a death
sentence I'm Nina but that is funny because you first of all we are going to start I always do you
think that noisy children how I hate each other or an airplane and then as the only likely beat
kelly kelly it's a joke I'm a comedian you paid 60 $ to make you laugh it's a silly joke Heath
obvious hits such anger and emotion him and took it so personally and it just made me after it's
terribly sad but Jan decision it's funny it's okay his son was left with that my mother the and
was Guests Aunt absolutely could you we used to laugh about and you land that you deal with
he's had to deal with life and get it over and make it funny because otherwise it's so say what
some of the most painful things that happened T youth youth ended up making jokes about
onstage where he's where he's my husband's suicide apparent some man 60 years-old that
couldn't take their business and wind and killed himself how do you deal with that how do you
do that you got a 16 year-old daughter who gets the call huh they and not take a deal that it
goes through it and you make jokes about you continuing it and you move forward that's how
you do it that's how I do it everyone and does things differently had you make jokes about how
you deal with a bag of see how do you deal with is you're fired from Fox when your numbers
were still good and you can't get a job for a year and a half you did do it and I do by making
jokes we're listening back to our 2010 interview with Joan Rivers as part of our end of the
decade series of interviews we'll hear more of the interview after a break.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 31, 2019 • 7:46 AM

B_DEC_WASH_164

efforts to prevent suicide get a boost in 2020 federal budget has more money for the National
suicide Prevention hotline and the FCC says it will designate a three-digit number for that line
not 9.1 a 9 8 aid and pairs 3 to Chatterjee has more the existing National suicide Prevention
lifeline is a 10 digit not about 102 7th Street talk Sherri Mason wealth he is with vibrant
emotional health organization that manages a lifeline she is the hot line is infected network of
more than a 100 local called Sunday this we have 170 could Rice's centers well actually feel
more than that at the moment that are part of a network across the country when someone
called lifeline they're connected to train staff volunteers and then local crisis center if local
centuries overwhelmed already temporary shutdown Sea due to a power outage caused
drought to a difference and elsewhere in the network we have a backup system that allows a
call always the answer no matter what sin Wolf keys organization funds the backup system with
some of the federal money it receives but sometimes there are so many calls people are put on
hold for longer or they get frustrated and hang up that's why the extra 7 million $ as in the
163

trendy trendy budget could be helpful he is a back-up center has a crucial to managing the call
volume which is grown steadily over the says we typically see on average increase of about 15%
per year in terms of our call volume deaths by suicide and the U.S. have been rising since the
90s through many potential fact that this country said to point to the lack of economic
opportunities and drug addiction one thing that could help its new plan for that three-digit
number 98 8 Lauren convoy is SportsCenter Stone of behavioral health care provider working in
several States that I think Yeah maybe it is that somebody in that moment craig but first they
may not know about 100 you don't recall it with it you know it probably heard hugh remember
why 100 number she said we know from 9.1 and the three-digit number is easy to remember
and dial David coming to is the CEO of our international a behavioral health care provider we
still have people in distress not knowing which numbered call he says many people still tend to
9.1 during the suicide of a mental health crisis when 98 8 becomes active he says all those
people what time did you know about as well as those not calling the national 800 number plus
this whole patchwork of local and regional crisis numbers that receive around 10 million calls
every year as a result 98 age will be very busy this means that the current volume more likely
increased tenfold in the first few years coming to cautions the number of mean on be available
in 2020 we could see me calls being answered in the next couple of years but he says things will
move forward this year the fcc is already talking to telecom companies to figure out the
technological aspects of making in 98 reality and there are two bills pending in Congress one of
the House and one in the Senate to fully ruled out 98 8 system including money for marketing
and operations both bills have widespread bipartisan support and Laiki have hearings in the
coming months Jennifer snow was but the National alliance on mental illness and she's grateful
for the momentum behind the new system we have to thank craig to for our country no one
noticed and increasing she says getting help for suicide shouldn't be any hotter than calling 9.11
KAPP (ABC)
Dec 31, 2019 • 5:15 PM

B_DEC_WASH_165

along with fireworks comes possible triggers for veterans or even victims of gun violence. the
loud noises can bring back unwanted memories, which can trigger the nervous system
according to the university of michigan. p-t-s-d affects almost 10-percent of the population.
though it may be hard to talk about -- if you have p-t-s-d, ask your neighbor to let you know if
they're lighting off fireworks. if you're experiencing unwanted thoughts -- call the national
suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Dec 31, 2019 • 6:50 PM

B_DEC_WASH_166

Let's get back to our 2010 interview with the late Joan Rivers in the document treat do you say
about her late husband Edgar who had also been your manager and producer he was madly in
love with him no was a good marriage Yes and I was surprised to hear you confess that they
were madly in love with him well it's also for 20 years and you could look back I thought it was
wonderful I I thought he was very funny I thought he was so smart I just knew he was right for
me I'm mad I'm married 4 days later for raising 4 days later he was crazy about me I just knew
164

he was perfect for me the perfect less every smart funny terrific got the business got me I had a
great time together both want the same things we have a great marriage Clay marriage was
madly in love with something I mean you know but as my mother always said they should like
Humana you like him so it was a thumping over you have areas saying Yeah it a either accused
kiki walking around they need very good eyesight so on most people know that you know he
took his life after careless Yeah F F this was not long was like a few months after your late night
show she was producing on Fox was canceled and apparently the network asked him to leave
you oppose that and then to show got cancelled n new in the movie said you blame Fox for the
league for his death but I am I'm wondering if maybe he wasn't like depressed before that
enough maybe depression wasn't cool interfere with his relationship with the network and you
put all your tap dancing everything is wonderful and something bad happens you catch yourself
but this was the big thing and he was producing the show and they said to me you could say he
can go his ago and he I had a choice said Thursday I said no I go my husband and we are off on
Friday and he knew what he did to my career so he not only got us out of a job the mild Korea
was smashed it everything was just very bad and it had a major heart attack Indiana forward by
bad news coming out of that he is depressed over that he just couldn't continue could do it in in
the movie he said he left high and dry and after 4 out of debt because he wasn't a good
businessman Yeah so like you are you know horrified he killed himself but also angry youth
lesson beyond angry still angry I worked very hard for suicide survivors with suicides bars as is
missy because what it does to the anger it never leaves here business sadness visit That alone
we need that sets in that I you know listen walk down the aisle and whose tenure after the
killings we both cried his Daddy was then walkedut you never get over that the scene at parties
by use do also furious what you did to us what you did you had a daughter his selfishness of of
it suicides I like you've done is just left all the pieces and God you should be you and it's not
unusual and very brave to do but it's a terrible thing but it does to a family Carol I think it does
affect you feel like it stands knowing message to the family it sends a bad message family it says
a lot of jokes if mom is a comedian right Yeah my first joke was hasn't killed himself and left a
message they have to visit every day had been cremated and sprinkle them Neiman Marcus
have been is today and that's how I'd get through life every week I think something like that
because it's so I difficulties so Kroll pitcher Ben laugh because you know it's good to have you
next Joan Rivers recorded in 2010 she died at the age of 81 in 2014.
KONG-SEA
Dec 31, 2019 • 12:05 PM

B_DEC_WASH_167

if you have problems at home or you are feeling depressed, you can talk to this teacher or that
coach. you need to talk to somebody. they give them tools in terms of what they can do. i think
that is important. i think that all of the steps aimed at young people are extremely important,
particularly in this day and age when we have so much violence. there are indications that
people are not as well as they could be. >> they are under a lot of stress. i'm thinking of that,
substance abuse. just the loss of a job. there are 1 million things that go into this but all of
those might benefit from early intervention. when we talk about mental health and trying to
remove the stigma, what do you think parents might do or should do to get our kids conversing
about this. we have talked to them about a sports injury but why wouldn't we talked to them
165

about anxiety and depression which is skyrocketing among young people. >> we should. there
is a spike in the suicide rate for young girls. >> it's just terrifying. >> from ages 15-24. that is a
huge spike in 2018. we need to prevent all of the suicides that we can. i think communication
and education and destigmatize nation is so important. there is no shame in having a mental
health issue. 1 in five individuals have that issue in their families. either acute or chronic. now,
we are living in the age of anxiety. there is going to be even more people that need the extra
help they need a therapist or doctors evaluations or support from their families and their
friends. that starts with education and communication within the family and within the schools.
teams or anywhere that you find kids. >> it is interesting that the university of washington has
done a fantastic job of curriculum for athletes so there is somebody to ask them how they are
doing. and i thought, why are we not asking all kids this. and helping them deal with this. when
you say anxiety i am not sure what has ramped it up. you have lived this very public and in
depth life. you have seen a lot of people in a lot of countries over time. what do you think is
different about us today that has ramped up the pressure on kids and adults. >> i think it is a
very different world. my goodness, now, you have social media and bullying. i work with the
clemente foundation and it is a foundation where people are trying to educate people about
how devastating online bullying can be to a person. it can lead to young people committing
suicide. and, it was started by the parents of a young man that jumped off of a bridge and killed
himself. there are things in groups like that where we need to be supportive. i think it has
ramped up because of the general condition we see the world in. and perhaps even our
country. i think that adds to the age of anxiety. but, to get back to, there is social media people
are on their phones all the time and playing games. and there are other things. there are other
things available to people. it is just, there is so much >> i feel like we were just on the cusp of
the cell phone thing and i didn't have to deal with as much of that when my kids were in that
age group. there are things that parents are working two jobs or there are others that -- we
have a big huge mix. and life is hard. >> so you changed it to committing suicide to dying by
suicide. and that is an important switch. we have to make that distinguish meant there. >>
that's right. i grew up with that first phrase and i have a first cousin whose son died by suicide.
>> i'm so sorry. >> thank you. because i am more involved in that issue that i have been before,
i learned the correct terminology. a person does not commit suicide. they actually take their
life. they die by an act of suicide. that is why it is important to get that out. >> i am just learning
this but we talked to experts earlier and we talked about that very thing and how to think about
things. i think that is where the name change could help. we need to be thoughtful about how
we change our words and look at our understanding. >> i was reading an article about how do
you talk to a child with a family member who has died by suicide. people don't know what to
say sometimes. sometimes you can't say anything. sometimes you just need to be there and
comfort someone. if you saw somebody that got hit by a car with a broken leg, would you just
walk on? that is not really going to heal it. it is the same with mental health issues and the
condition. i hope we can get there. we are making progress. i think there is less stigma than
there was years ago. but we still have a long way to go. we do that through communication and
education. the brain is part of the body and it is very important to do that. >> i appreciate when
people that are high profile get involved in this. you have taken photos of people that are living
in this situation. what has your interface been like? what might we want to understand? >> i
think it is important to understand that there are so many causes for this. you can see her, she
166

was a vic them. she just couldn't pay the rent anymore. there is a myriad of reasons why people
become homeless. she probably had another doctor. she wasn't getting treatment. so she was
washing up in bathrooms. her dog was with animal protection. this was a family assistance
shelter and her whole family brought in and were being cared for. and that is really what we
need to do in every city. it was completely untreated. but very kind. a very nice person. >> just
imagine the desperation and people that are having so much trouble getting help. >> that's
right. they are very desperate. unless they will agree to do it you can't help them. >> this is all
just steps away from the seats of power. >> that's right. but the thing about seattle, there are
many reasons that people become homeless. sometimes you just miss a paycheck. many
people are working but they are still living out of a car because they can't afford rent. a.b. they
have a mental health issue or some issue in their family. there are so many reasons. so, this
program is changing their lives. i am so impressed with it. they are not just a statistic. they
come into a program and they become part of a community that offers them some admiration
for their work and respect. and a sense of belonging. >> and we all need that. we all want to be
seen by each other. and arch is just a remarkable organization. we appreciate your support in
that.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Dec 31, 2019 • 2:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_168

being in an open office can be particularly challenging if you have a mental health condition
millions of Americans struggle with issues like depression or anxiety yet many feel as though
they can get the support they need at work in fact for some mental health can feel like don't
ask don't tell topic at the office that's the subject of a recent story by Cynthia cocoons she
covers health care for Bloomberg said Dan thanks for joining us thanks for having me so one of
your stories you talk about a company that is investing in mental health care but it doesn't
seem to quite get it right why is this so challenging for businesses it starts the beginning with
how people feel about opening up about their mental health at work the workplace is
competitive in America people austin live in fear that if they disclose a mental health condition
will be used against them and then there's this there's the reality that there are laws to protect
workers with in the workplace but you have to actually take legal action go to the equal
employment opportunity Commission filed a complaint in order to use them against employers
so people are loath to do that and that secrecy and stigma around mental health keeps this
problem festering behind-the-scenes where nobody really wants to talk about it is there
awaited judge how common it is that someone really does face some kind of backlash for
disclosing a mental health issue in the workplace that state I haven't really ever been able to
work out just because so much of this is held done privately so even if a person word take a
claim to the E.E.O.C. that would be handled through mediation and so those precedents are
necessarily publican if employees sued their employer that's something that will go public but a
lot of people settle and settlements and up and with usually nondisparagement clauses and
people don't talk about why they ended up in that position in the first place most of that
stunning quietly and behind closed doors where there are examples that you came across in
your reporting of companies that we're doing mental health support well Ole and companies
that were doing not so well I think the most encouraging thing that I found America courting is
167

that so many companies Sony employers want to do a better job than they've done so far so
there are big Companies like cisco that we're taking a new approach toward mental health for
example they're getting in emergency days off for things that are classically sick days and
vacation days Microsoft is building on site counseling services companies like Chevron had
actually stood out the mental health arena and they're actually now in cases where it doesn't
affect the safety operations of the company for giving people for failed drug and alcohol tests
and helping them get into recovery so a lot of companies are stepping up and trying to make a
more inclusive and open more place where you can talk about your mental health you can seek
help and it wouldn't be used against you and what about the companies that maybe aren't
doing so well I would necessarily want to point a finger at a specific company for not necessarily
rising to the occasion and in fact consider the fact that it's much bigger than that and it's much
more of a question of how large companies addresses from a leadership perspective and
ensure that people are much lower down the chain are getting the access and treatment that
they need and so that really just comes down to whether or not the insurance they offer health
insurance has adequate mental health coverage because that's another consistent problem
where people go to use their insurance and they can access mental health care Yeah you
mention one of your pieces that people who try to use their insurance to get mental health care
often find a long list of therapist psychologist that aren't accepting new patients or that charge
more than the insurance company will reimburse yet these are called ghost networks and
they're basically networks full of psychiatrists and psychologists they don't actually take the
insurance plan that there are listed under it's so common night I was almost a Wash and stories
of this it was just unbelievable how many people told me examples where their insurance plans
listed in network providers just were not available to them and still a lot of what needs to
happen here is employers need to really push on their insurers and figure out if their services
are adequate and I think in 2020 and beyond there's gonna be some larger scale initiatives were
in the employer's actually start to push for best but it's really critical piece of the problem and
it's not just about coming out and saying I have a mental health condition it's really about being
able to get the chronic lasting therapy to live with that and manager of symptoms on an
ongoing basis stinkin Cohen's covers health care for bloomberg thank you so much thanks for
having me while we're on the topic of mental health the holiday season can be rough so if you
are in distress you can call them National suicide Prevention lifeline.
News Radio KEX
Dec 31, 2019 • 1:24 PM

B_DEC_OREG_197

this was supposed to be the year sex-trafficking victims of Jeffrey get steam got Justice Esteves
luck may have run out charges years ago involving sexual activity with underage girls resulted in
an exceptionally light sentence but now if he's convicted of sex trafficking he may be looking at
decades behind bars he kept saying it God my God it's so beautiful and sexy in a corner hs then
and was making me uncomfortable the for its here was arrested in July and charged by federal
prosecutors in New York was charged with two count guy first conspiracy to commit sex
trafficking second the substance crime those sex trafficking underaged girl from victims it was a
moment they thought would never come after an earlier leniency deal he'll be once with the
extraordinary help both the government and doing the entire thing in secrecy and under the
168

cloak of darkness which clearly we don't have this time all only by taking away the freedom
agenda we have seen him we restore our freedom of these it done it's little more than a month
later and steen was dead suicide how on Earth is not under special protection the medical
examiner's office in new York concluded and Steen had hanged himself in his cell of clothing
you learn who's charming door somebody wants to kill themselves a hawk than sell ready to
sell those there's a meme to do two guards were charged with falsifying records to make it
seem like they did their appointed rounds when in fact security camera footage suggested they
did not fare where so many people that are looking for right to seeing handcuffed behind
buyers' terror the rest of his life a number that teens victims have sued his estate in cases that
will stretch well into 2020.
88.5 KNKX
Dec 31, 2019 • 7:51 AM

B_DEC_WASH_169

sometimes there are so many calls people are put on hold for longer or they get frustrated and
hang up that's why the extra 7 million $ as in the trendy trendy budget could be helpful he is a
back-up center has a crucial to managing the call volume which is grown steadily over the says
we typically see on average increase of about 15% per year in terms of our call volume deaths
by suicide and the U.S. have been rising since the 90s through many potential fact that this
country said to point to the lack of economic opportunities and drug addiction one thing that
could help its new plan for that three-digit number 98 8 Lauren convoy is sportscenter Stone of
behavioral health care provider working in several States that I think Yeah maybe it is that
somebody in that moment craig but first they may not know about 100 you don't recall it with
it you know it probably heard hugh remember why 100 number she said we know from 9.1 and
the three-digit number is easy to remember and dial David coming to is the CEO of our
international a behavioral health care provider we still have people in distress not knowing
which numbered call he says many people still tend to 9.1 during the suicide of a mental health
crisis when 98 8 becomes active he says all those people what time did you know about as well
as those not calling the national 800 number plus this whole patchwork of local and regional
crisis numbers that receive around 10 million calls every year as a result 98 age will be very
busy this means that the current volume more likely increased tenfold in the first few years
coming to cautions the number of mean on be available in 2020 we could see me calls being
answered in the next couple of years but he says things will move forward this year the fcc is
already talking to telecom companies to figure out the technological aspects of making in 98
reality and there are two bills pending in Congress one of the House and one in the Senate to
fully ruled out 98 8 system including money for marketing and operations both bills have
widespread bipartisan support and Laiki have hearings in the coming months Jennifer snow was
but the National alliance on mental illness and she's grateful for the momentum behind the
new system we have to thank craig to for our country no one noticed and increasing she says
getting help for suicide shouldn't be any hotter than calling 9.1 after a car crash.

169

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Dec 31, 2019 • 12:40 PM

B_DEC_WASH_170

people believe and then from the for the democr thief so for the FDA to come in and take a life
saving treatment away from cancer patient I think we'll be pretty difficult politically however if
they do try to do that we are ready to defend the doctors and the patients that is what we do
with the goldwater and the cute we will defend their right of way after the U.S. Supreme court
if you don't mind I'm talking Darcy Olsen is the author of the right to try would you mind
walking my listeners are hoping that not too many of them are up against this kind of life
threatening situation but how would they go about the process of getting through Um Yeah the
paperwork and the bureaucracy to obtain a life-saving drug for a family member for themselves
through the investigation process and they run the risk the will be told well because its
investigation you might be getting a placebo and you might be getting the real deal or can they
are sure of themselves they might actually get the drugs they need I walk through all of this in
my book and there is a chapter on how to go about exercising your right to trial under the new
state laws it it found too hard it eat well it's it the Lada brand new and so you have to find a
position who are willing to katrina you have to find a company that is willing to or manufacture
that will give you a treatment there are patients being treated and alive right now we know
that there are multiple positions you're arguing mental and willing to move forward but we also
know that there will be some company could say no way I want to get across why the FDA had
one risk the ultimate approval of a drug so it's not a guaranteed Green light but did leave the
door is more open than it was before and we certainly encourage people to try to fight for that
the right to bear is on the books and now infected patients and their families and physician can
go out and make that right there her be if people approach their doctor on something like this
is their doctor realistically up against the threat that if they tried to help a patient who's fully
informed of the risks are and what they're about to do the that doctors still might put his or her
entire career and at risk that have popped above we think it's very very unlikely that the FDA
would come down on an individual doctor particularly when they're trying to save someone
who is you on that I'm on the verge of death and we are certainly prepared to defend those
doctors and you think that most of the families who find themselves in these circumstances it
also agreed to forgo possible legal action against the doctors long as as their told this is what
you're getting into this is what you need to be aware of these the risk you're taking to try to get
this life-saving treatment have there been any examples where family said well you know me
because these days everyone is so litigious set up a hot Cup of coffee in your lap means 3
million Bucks I could see people being concerned that if I tried to do this to help this family save
the life of a family member it doesn't work out well they may decide to exact retribution from
me if I'm a doctor share what you find the same type of informed consent that you would find
in a clinical trial it says some of the side effects may be unknown but you know you put it that if
the doctor done something completely negligent you know you still have a right under the law
have very similar to the clinical trial process so far we have not seen position speed and be
concerned about that what they think poker terminal and what they'll tell you is look I know
what's going to happen if I don't get agreement and I've got 4 kids at home so give me the right
to try you know there are many they can do to really appreciate their physician for going the
extra mile the not really an area her for being litigious the for anything how you're that effort to
170

try to try 11 tried to protect their children to protect themselves what else is needed to get the
other States to sign off on this or some of them just simply not not in a mode where they were
they're going to be willing to do that alert we could move that quickly that's happened in the
last 12 months so thee and state legislatures month them open in January again we will go in
and and packed legislators about that and probably pick up another 15 or 20 state of the only
thing we had a veto so far in california where you had governor Jerry Brown Ironically and the
right for dialogue for me said Jim a terminal illness you can take a drive Hey than your bath but
he vetoed the right to try laws so they're rude it's really a culture of death and you know what a
lot of folks with terminal only other thing is you know that great given thought option but what
if we want to try to continue to fight for her life shouldn't we have got right see I'm not a fan of
the though the doctor assisted suicide laws of I've been in the state where they had the longest
actually first government on planet Earth the never officially approved even though the
Netherlands had it with a wink and a nod but there have been too many seeing it up close there
been to a crash and burn another questionable circumstances for me to be a fan of that but I
almost be willing to go the extent of you another good Samaritan laws in most states if you stop
it that an accident and and try to give help within your abilities the the state even afford to a
certain amount of of lot of of immunity from liability if and I could see doing the same thing for
a doctor I think most doctors would I would love to have some kind of protection knowing fun
trying to do the right thing I'm doing with my knowledge shouldn't be blamed for later learn
you're actually exactly right it's one of the legal theory underpinning for a potential case that
should should be FDA defied the they don't like these blogs and and try that bother doctor
patient the book is called the right to try how the federal government prevent americans from
getting life saving treatment they need it's all of your resources in prison the Goldwater
Institute a missile so I really appreciate the time.
AM 860
Dec 31, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_DEC_OREG_198

authorities in Texas are investigating a motive after to congregants were shot and killed the on
a Sunday church service near Fort worth more is being learned about the gunman keith
Communion we're also hearing from family members who say he was deeply shaken by the
suicide of a sibling and he struggled with clothes D mentors.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Dec 31, 2019 • 7:45 PM

B_DEC_WASH_171

It is national suicide Prevention month actually said comes down to the week and brother may
told may come down to the day tomorrow September 10 well A.G. our hard news reporter
comes with the story talking about preventing help to prevent because the suicide rate of those
who were firefighters out there and done that so volunteer firefighters we talk about that at 8
right now

171

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Dec 31, 2019 • 6:30 AM

B_DEC_WASH_172

it is now 6:30. kiro7 is staying on top of breaking news in federal way. two officers were shot
just after midnight. we've been live on the scene of the shooting where one of those officers
was taken overnight. we know the suspect in the shooting is dead. we don't know exactly how
this all unfolded, though. this happened on 14th avenue south. we mapped it out for you right
there. kiro7's ranji sinha is getting updates from the police every 0 minutes. ranji, the roads are
closed there. >> reporter: yes. we're just outside of federal way high school at 14th avenue
south. you can see the tape. as we zoom in on those vehicles, they're parked near 08th lane.
that's where the shooting occurred. we have very little information from federal way. officers
came to 14th avenue south to an apartment complex. they found a man in a car in that
apartment complex parking lot, had some sort of interaction with him and gunfire erupted. it's
not clear why this man opened fire but that appears to be what happened. two officers were
shot and that suspect was killed. >> during that contact one of the officers called out for
assistance. shortly thereafter additional officers arrived and the shooting ensued. the details
leading up to the shooting i don't have any details on. >> reporter: did this man open fire on the
officers? >> we believe so. that's the information i have at this time. >> reporter: now we've
seen police vehicles continuing to arrive in this area over the last hour, hour and a half. in fact,
vehicles over there arrived in the last hour. nobody else was hurt as part of this incident. there's
no greater damage to the officer. we asked the public information officer if this is suicide by
cop. he had no answer. my colleague matt smith has been keeping up on. it for now live in
federal way, let's throw this back to you in the studio. >> we're tracking how the officers are
doing.
News Radio KEX
Dec 31, 2019 • 7:30 PM

B_DEC_OREG_199

A month later Epstein died in jail it's way too convenient the mayor's suspicions aside the
medical examiner ruled the death a suicide by hanging to jail guards were charged with ignoring
around to sleep or surf the Internet leaving Epstein alone and unsupervised aaron persky.
KDRV (ABC)
Dec 31, 2019 • 10:10 PM

B_DEC_OREG_200

we've all gotten them--those annoying spam calls--sometime s pretending to be local numbers often out to scam you. and now a new rule by the fcc could make it easier for them to protect
you and punish them. serena marshall reports from washington robo calls-- we all get them.
pop/call: department of social security administration. and pretty safe to say-- we all hate em!
sot/call: we've just suspended your social security number because we have found some
suspicious activity. especially--when those illegal calls make it look like its someone local.
sot/patrick webre/chief of the consumer and governmental affairs bureau at the fcc. "spoofing
is a way for them to get you to answer the call so they could spoof a number that looks similar
to yours that's called neighbor spoofing. so you think maybe it's somebody who's local to me."
172

it's become cheaper and easier than ever for fraudsters to operate - and often times those calls
originate from overseas the fcc say's they received more than 30-thousand complaints just in
the first half of the year. and they aren't simply annoying—the consequences can be serious
sot/angela/skype: "we estimate that they took between probably between five and six hundred
thousand dollars." angela stanick's grandmother--one of their victims. she told congress:
sot/stancik/testimony: "it is extremely hard to imagine a loved one committing suicide, but she
did. because these individuals preyed on her and on her good heart." and those fraudsters also
instilled fear. leading to wire transfers, a reverse mortgage-- and draining of her life's savings.
sot/stancik/testimo ny: "my grandmother died with $69 in her bank account." now the fcc
government stepping in responding-- sot/patrick webre/chief of the consumer and
governmental affairs bureau at the fcc: we're empowering phone companies first to block calls
before consumers even receive them. the fcc using newly granted authority to punish
offenders-- especially those outside of the country. while in congress--- nats: we do want to
proceed with the robocall bill a bipartisan bill - passed. president trump--- signing into law
monday night--- that allows the fcc to hit scammers with a fine of up to 10-thousand dollars and extends the time the agency can take action - while also requiring phone companies-adopt new technologies to stop the calls from ever reaching consumers. serena tag: if you do
get a phone call from an unfamiliar number, the fcc advises - don't answer it. but if you dodefinitely don't provide any personal details-if you don't answer it but you feel like you need to
call the company back they suggest going to the company's website to make sure you are
calling the right number.

173

