B_Apr_Wash_1

KEPR (CBS) — Action News at 11
Apr 1 • 2:00 AM
Action News introduced you to a retired veteran yesterday who was walking across the country
raising awareness about veteran deaths by suicide. a local Kennewick family heard the story
and wanted to meet him because they are also spreading suicide awareness after losing their
son in December. reporter Julia was in Kennewick to capture the heart-warming moment and
shows us more. >>Iwould love for you to have a coin for your journey so that throughout the
whole process, you have -- victory and honor along your whole way. >> Annie and her husband
present a coin to jimmy who is walking over 3,000 miles across the country to raise awareness
for suicide prevention. specifically, for veterans. they are sharing one life saving mission and
their encounter was destiny. >> my husband and I never want to have another family go
through the pain that we are going through and the other families that are going through with
us because they are lost a loved one. >> Annie said she lost their son to suicide on December
22nd. >> he was one of the kindest, gentlest warmest people you had ever known. >> since
then the couple is passing out coins in, he has name to people who have died by suicide or
working to bring awareness. >> this year it’s about victory and honor. >> and any chance they
get to share a little token in honor of their son, they don't hesitate to do it. >> I haven't slowed
down. I have been to Philadelphia. I have been able to meet a family there where a young boy
Gabe who is 12 saved another person's life, a friend. >> the encounter was emotional. >> can I
give you hug? that is so awesome. it is so awesome what you have done. >> jimmy who is on a
similar mission says he feels fortunate to receive the support he has seen in our community. >>
going to keep the coin that Anni gave me real, real close to my heart. >> after seeing tragedy
firsthand these two are hoping to let people know there is help out there. back to you. >> if you
are or someone you know needs help you can call the national suicide prevention hot line. that
number is there on your screen. we will also have that on our website keprtv.com
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 1 • 1:12 AM

B_Apr_Wash_2

before the break we were asking about you know the key data points about places that are
dangerous, and Stephen mentioned suicides where they’re hiding certain places where the deal
magnetic anomalies are detected. Las Vegas is one of the highest suicide places in the world
and I don't know, are you confident enough in the data you collected to offer advice where
people should or should not live? I think from a starting point is that these seem to be believed
he'd be impact of that negative for anomalies. Come on people was something we didn't delve
into too much because figures spoke for themselves. 70% of the world's help suicide locations
appear night of anomalies and this phenomenon has been known to affect people in a
particular way.

1

FM News 101 KXL
Apr 1 • 1:35 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_1

this is the initial story with regards to George and Barbara Bush. I remember you know during
the primary when Trump started taking the lead and it seemed there were some people were
shocked it was going to be a cab yet desailly that has hurt the exhibition point and they were
saying, no he's so bad because he was that faithful to his wife and all this stuff fenn it okay and
the campaign had it was George Bush, George H.W. Bush won neither for toiled years or so this
story is crazy and it's not like this it's not as though this is information that suggested some sort
of solution. I think Barbara Bush actually sat down and give an interview with the to this lady
who was writing her biography and its season pages the metro are Barbara Bush in the making
but American dynasty and apparently Barbara Bush fell under such a deep depression she
considered suicide because her husband was carrying on this decade plus long affair with one
of his younger aides she said when she drove she would sometimes pull over parks' she would
just go hit a tree drive an oncoming traffic. Yeah and he gets money let me just share with you
one is this is crazy because this is what we were told they had the best and it's just so all my
gosh I am a question about this too but its return she worked with his father she sat down and
gave interviews with us off their picture together talk and you are doing the interview all kinds
of stuff so she is returning from a post this season pages book returning from pushed Beijing
China s chief the U.S. liaison office under president Gerald Ford, Barbara called the disease
years the best of times but quickly evolved into the worst when Bush was assigned to head the
embattled CIA 1975 barber fell into darkness and says she's overwhelmed she was you know
and pain incredibly lonely and because he was having this be no 12s my yearlong affair nail with
this woman what was her Jennifer 5th year old is who I was she was named neighbor Bush was
introduced her in the early 70s by a friend heavy full acacia cause Lindor romance carried on for
12 years and men and 1974 ford appointed Bush did the chief of the liaison office in china so
barber went to Beijing with Bush and then she learned that Jennifer Fitzgerald the aide who has
no foreign policy experience was coming to China so Barbara I mean obviously was mad and
says she leaps Barbara she had a fight pat she caught a ride home on the plane Henry Kissinger
who was visiting just happened to be visiting the time so she adored Bush did not spend
Christmas that's Christmas together and 75 he's appointed director of the CIA he brings Jennifer
on his aide and Barbara Bush was apparently considering suicide issues depression friend
speculate Jennifer was one of the factors they said emig clearly Bush ran for president. Here's
the other thing that gets me said Jim Baker his campaign manager his close friend apparently
told him like you've got to I you got to stop this and he was saying I’m basically I keep your
friend if you're continuing to invest and Bush told he would think about it.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 1 • 2:47 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_2

the harmony for Spain is set to go to the polls later this month just 10 months after the Prime
Minister Pedro Sanchez assumed office elections recalled Mr. Sanchez was unable to get his
budget through the Spanish Parliament after losing the support of how to separate his party's is
2

will be short his administration and Spain's modern history the political turmoil is creating
insurgency for ordinary people in Spain who many issues they want their government to
consider one of those issues is euthanasia. As Tim Smith reports this is a sound democracy in
Spain and attentive that drew tens of thousands marched in Madrid's to approve for change
pissed need to share in 5 days ICE's that cools well it's a Spain's funding instead Pedro Sanchez
has that's not elections for April witnesses the election fight isn't Spain and pisco unrest is
creatine on Sesame seed for some is quite true and not serve life and death and some lost in
the government table to build D criminalize euthanasia or assisted suicide giving have 2,000
people in the country campaigning for the right to die.
KAPP (ABC)
Apr 1 • 5:05 AM

B_Apr_Wash_3

A recently retired army veteran is walking across the country for a cause. Jimmy Novak, an army
veteran, is walking to raise PTSD and veteran suicide awareness. He started in DuPont,
Washington last week and stopped in Richland this weekend. Novak is walking about 22 miles a
day. He plans to end the journey at Walt Disney World in Florida by August. the army vet
doesn't suffer from PTSD but knows the struggle of suicidal thoughts. (Jimmy Novak/walking
across America "if by being out here and walking across America, I can inspire somebody else to
know that it's okay to see help, that they're not weak for having the emotional challenges that
they have, then I think there is goodness in that. there is help. your life has value. there is
somebody who cares about you. if nobody else, there's me. I care about you.") Novak walks
with a jogging stroller and backpack full of his gear. if you would like to donate to his journey,
we have the link to his page on our website... yak-tri-news-dot-com.
KEPR (CBS)
Apr 1 • 5:15 AM

B_Apr_Wash_4

a recently retired army veteran is walking across the country...to raise awareness about veteran
deaths by suicide and PTSD retired sergeant first class jimmy Novak is trekking around 22 miles
each day...from DuPont Washington to Disneyworld. he left home on March 22nd and hopes to
arrive on his birthday... august 22nd.if you're noticing a pattern...it's on purpose. A veteran’s
affairs study found around 22 veterans take their lives every day. "a lot of our veteran
community do struggle, we're not all broken toys by any means. I’m hoping to normalize the
topic a little and make people more comfortable having hard conversations. hoping to inspire
people to reach out and seek help. "Novak spent the weekend in Richland to plan out changes
to his route. Next, he's headed to Boise through Oregon. We’ll have more on his journey at kepr
tv dot com.
KEPR (CBS)
Apr 1 • 5:35 AM

B_Apr_Wash_5

3

action news introduced you to a retired veteran who is walking across the country raising
awareness about veteran’s death by suicide. A local Kennewick family heard the story and
wanted to meet him because they're also spreading suicide awareness after losing their son in
December. Annie and her husband presented a "kess coin" to jimmy who is trekking over three
thousand miles across the country to raise awareness for suicide prevention --specifically for
veterans. they're sharing one life saving mission -- and say their encounter was destiny Annie
says they lost their son kess to suicide on December 22nd.since then the couple is passing out
coins in kess's name to people who have been touched by suicide or are working to bring
awareness. "it’s okay to make mistakes and its okay not to be okay and that you’ve got to talk
to someone and a bigger message is kids who know something is not right with their friend to
say something to an adult "if you or someone you know needs help you can call the national
suicide prevention hotline. that number is also our action news website.
KAPP (ABC)
Apr 1 • 9:35 AM

B_Apr_Wash_6

walking across the country for a cause. jimmy Novak, an army veteran, is walking to raise PTSD
and veteran suicide awareness. he started in DuPont last week and stopped in Richland this
weekend. Novak is walking about 22 miles a day. he plans to end the journey at Walt Disney
World in Florida by august. the army vet doesn't suffer knows the struggle of suicidal thoughts.
com. yak-tri-news-dot-the link to his page if you would like backpack full of with a jogging you.")
has value. there is there is help. your life has value. there is somebody who cares about you. if
nobody else, there's me. I care about you.") Novak walks with a jogging stroller and backpack
full of his gear. if you would like to donate to his journey, we have the link to his page on our
website... yak-tri-news-dot-com
KEPR (CBS)
Apr 1 • 6:49 AM

B_Apr_Wash_7

earlier "action news" and news dues due to a retired veteran walking across the country raising
awareness about veteran's death by suicide. a local family heard the story and wanted to meet
him because they are spreading suicide awareness after losing their son. they were presented
with a coin for jimmy walking 3000 miles across the country to raise awareness for suicide
prevention and specifically for veterans and they are having one lifesaving mission and their
encounter was destiny. since there son committed suicide, they are working to bring awareness
and handing out flyers. >> it's okay to not be okay and we have to have a bigger mencius is kids
who know something is not right with the friend and to say something to an adult. >> if you or
someone you know needs help call the suicide prevention hotline and is listed on our "action
news" website.
KOIN-POR (CBS)

B_Apr_Oreg_3

4

Apr 1 • 8:32 AM
a new biography offers an unprecedented look at the life of one of America’s most influential
women. Barbara Bush is the only woman to advise a husband and son during their presidencies
and remained one of America’s most admired women, despite being largely out of the public
eye for years before her death in 2018. her life and role in American history are chronicled in
"the matriarch: Barbara Bush and the making of an American dynasty" written by "USA today"
Washington bureau chief Susan page, interviewed Mrs. Bush five times and one two of people
outside the family ever granted access to her personal diaries. good morning. >> good morning.
>> oh my gosh, and it shows. >> bravo. >> it's so richly researched and so many new details. I
know you talked to so many people, over 100 people, right? >> that's right. >> you asked them
if George Bush hadn't been married to Barbara pierce, would he have become president and
what was the conclusion you came to? >> such a generational divide. people in the Bush's
generation generally said yes, he would have become president regardless, but the younger you
got, the more astonishing people thought the question was, because they were such partners
and the word that people kept using was indispensable, they were each indispensable to the
other. I asked actually to the Bushes ly that question, and Barbara Bush said immediately,
absolutely, he was destined to be, do all the things that he did and I asked George, and he
thought about it a minute and said yes, I think I would have become president. >> surprising. >>
I think they are both wrong about that, because I think this was a partnership, the likes of which
we rarely see in life. >> let's go through, there's so many interesting details. you open up in one
of the opening chapters about the death of Barbara’s first daughter, robin, who died of
leukemia at the age of 3 years old. why did you start the book with that story? >> I didn't
originally. in the first draft of this book, I had it chronologically in the first chapter on the 1988
election that put George H.W. Bush in the white house, and I realized it was so long, that that
was not the defining event of her life, that the defining event of her life or one of the most
defining events was the death of robin, and it shaped so many of her views going forward, for
one thing her own relationship. she was the strong one during robin's illness and he was the
strong one in the aftermath, that was a pattern they repeated through decades that followed.
even when you came to things like her activism on aids, that related to what she saw the stigma
surrounding kids with leukemia, when her daughter was suffering. >> it was also interesting to
see the dynamic of Barbara Bush and her mom, how that mom, her mother affected her,
because you write that her mom was a little mean to her and certainly seemed to favor the
other daughter who she considered prettier and smarter than Barbara Bush, how that must
have affected her. >> her mother would often make comments about her weight and Barbara
Bush was sensitive about her weight for the rest of her life. often the first thing she noticed
about a woman she met was whether she was slender or not so clearly it was on her mind. it's a
signature of hers she'd make fun of herself, make fun of her weight and I think in part, there
was just a germ of truth there, that she thought she wasn't pretty. she was a very handsome
woman. >> you think about her tough but so many vulnerabilities. her daughter robin dies in
1953. >> that's right >> she reveals in the 1970s she suffered through a great bout of
depression, where she was suicidal. did you talk to her about that?

5

>> I did, and this was something that the only person she confided in was her husband. they
had come back from china. he had taken over being head of the CIA all of a sudden, she had
been an integral part of his life and could not share the CIA secrets with her because she said
she couldn't keep a secret and also going through menopause and there may have been other
factors as well. she would find herself so depressed she thought about plowing her car into a
tree or into the path of an oncoming car and she would have to pull off the road and wait for
that impulse to pass. now, after about six months, this depression lifted. one thing she did was
go volunteer in a hospice, and that she thinks that was helpful in her getting through this. she
says now she told me she felt she should have gone to a doctor and gotten treatment for
depression and urge other people to, but it affected how she felt about people who suffered
from depression, because she didn't seem judgmental about it, because she understood in her
own life. >> she understood the pain. >> how did she connect that; did she connect that with
the role women were supposed to play in the generation she came from and the emerging one.
there was a kind of stoicism you were supposed to maintain, which undoubtedly must have
made the depression worse. >> that's right, and you know, one thing that happened during this
depression is, to a small degree, she questioned the choices she had made in life. this was a
time with the rise of mechanism, women had all kinds of options and opportunities that they
hadn't had when she was growing up and she wondered if her life had real meaning, if she had
made a big difference and one of her sons, Neil, told me he couldn't believe she felt that way.
they talked about it once. he couldn't believe she felt that way, given all she had done. >> it's
juicy, and it's so smart, and you really give us some insight into who Barbara Bush was. I look at
her very differently now, the things that we just really didn't know about her. >> right. >> well
done. >> you talked about her views on abortion rights. Jennifer Fitzgerald may have some sort
of relationship with her husband, as you point out, so many things. >> she and Nancy Reagan.
>> they did not get along. >> and American history, too, and to see it through her life. >> and
behind wearing red, the story behind that and what does she want the book to be called. >>
she didn't like the matriarch and didn't like dynasty. a said what would you call the book? she
said "the fat lady sings again. " >> I’m glad you went with "the matriarch." bravo, well done. >>
congrats to you. >> really good. >> the name of the book, "the matriarch: Barbara Bush, the
making of an American dynasty" goes on sale tomorrow wherever you like to buy your books
AM 860
Apr 1 • 1:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_4

you go talking a little bit about new research a bell on the connection between the video
gaming and recruitment for the alt-right and that there's a deeper connection to this with the
problem with teenagers in general because of course a lot of the people who are most involved
in the world of gaming most deeply involved and talking 30 40 50 hours a week and say how
could someone spend 50 hours a week gaming or if you're not doing much if you're out of
school near out of work and you're basically and you can eat and you can do all your severe
other bodily functions without getting up from your gaming I mean most of your body
conscience but there are two different columns one USA today and one of the new York post
both of which are very alarming ballot Aden couple of major his studies about the problem of
6

loneliness with teens now why is that a such a serious problem what because loneliness is very
directly connected to move emotional difficulties and poor health and lower life expectancy of
course right now among teenagers more than traffic accidents more than drug overdoses even
suicide it is a terrible risk which of course is often directly connected to loneliness is a piece
tight Carol Marco it's over the new York post and she writes the loneliness of older people
those the twilight of their lives I hate that phrase twilight of their lives twilight by the way it can
be a magical time of day it can the beautiful things happen in twilight and any that she writes
the loneliness older people those in the twilight of their lives is received a great attention last
few years an alarming share of baby boomers one out of every 11 according to the Wall Street
Journal are growing old without any family around and look loneliness for older people you
understand that's because the family grows up and moves away because you are widowed or
made it into a widow were very various circumstances but freed teenagers most teenagers
during school and yet there it the study published in this month's issue of annals of family
medicine concluded that while loneliness was initially emphasized in geriatric populations is
now a trickle down and become especially acute among children and young adults that finding
Carlie with another march study published in the journal about normal psychology about the
mental health of the adults using data collected from more than 600,000 people the national
survey on drug use and health that study that looked at mental health and teens and young
adults the study found a steep decline in their well-being of this coming along at a time of peak
nominee progress where there's less unemployment there are higher wages there is a buzzing
economy particularly on a day like today when the markets up 300 points but this is not having
an impact on American adolescence rates of major depressive episodes last year jumped 52%
among adolescents aged 12 to 17 and jumped 63% among young adults aged 18 to 25 not now
look we were supposed to believe that as more and more young people went to college that it
was going to increase opportunity and it does your much less likely to be unemployed if you
have a college degree and you're likely to earn more however right now look they major
depressive results among young adults 18 to 25 which is 8 college aged generation to conduct
63% in here that's amazing it's not just the blues either right Carol Marco it's serious
psychological stress and suicide related out who's suicidal aviation plans attention deaths by
suicide also spiked among the and last year what's going on here the lives of our modern you
should be pretty good they have all the information the world on devices they carry in our
pockets she writes they have plenty of opportunities to make friends instantaneously
something the older generation finds increasingly difficult and not withstanding what so-called
democratic socialist keep telling us this is the time unparalleled prospered the unemployment
rate is 4% less and most American families enjoy conveniences that would never have been
even thinkable to most human generations cross most of human history life should be grand
but she says these very conveniences may be the source of view of anguish one obvious culprit
is the over use of social media
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 1 • 8:07 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_5

7

the quick thinking of neighbors likely saved lives, and what people have described as a war
zone, in Wilsonville. drone video from fly 8 today shows what's left of a fire that broke out early
Sunday morning. it started at a construction site near the vilemoi community. >> I grabbed the
dogs, grabbed our cars, and just high tailed it out. the whole building across the street from us
was engulfed. it was just insane. >> amazingly, no one was hurt. investigators are still at this
appointment trying to figure out what started this fire. a GoFundMe account has been set up to
help those people whose homes were damaged or destroyed. >>> a fire burned several trucks
in Clackamas this afternoon. deputies say someone drove their truck into a propane tank on
purpose and died. the fire spread to the trucks, no one was else seriously hurt. authorities are
calling this a suicide. if you, or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts and needs
someone to talk with, there is help available. you can text lines for live at 273-talk. or call 1-800273-talk.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 1 • 5:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_6

Another study that shows a link between technology and teen depression. what parents need
to know to help, next on kezi nine news at five.... more teens are suffering from depression and
anxiety -- which can lead to suicide -- and technology and social media could be playing a part.
in our project safe family: there's no doubt computers, laptops, smartphones play a big part in
teens lives. and, pediatricians say while technology can be beneficial... it can also be dangerous.
teens might feel left out, if their Instagram or other social media accounts... don't compare to
their friends. also, electronic screens can disrupt sleep... and that can lead to depression,
moodiness and irritability. doctors say teens should limit screen time to two hours a day. shut
everything off an hour before bedtime. don't allow screens in the bedroom, so they're not
getting texts at all hours of the night.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 1 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_7

A teenager accused of causing a car crash that killed a Tigard woman, faced a judge today. the
deadly crash happened Saturday afternoon on southwest pacific highway near Sherwood, Amy
Frazier is live outside Washington county court with new information on the case. >> we've
learned the teen should not have been driving in the first place. meanwhile, friends of the
victim tell me she was one of the best. >> she was one of the people that would literally give
you the shirt off her back. >> she remembers her friend as someone who loved her family, her
dogs and trips to the beach. she worked as an adult caregiver helping others. >> she loves
taking care of people. >> over the weekend, investing say a teenage driver took her
life. >> very angry. >> around 3:45, deputies say he turned on to Sherwood and swerved into
the path of the truck. >> the crash since decouples truck into the medium, -- the median where
it rolled several times. >> been married for 25 years into lose your life -- your wife like that is
pretty difficult. >> according to documents, he was not supposed to be driving. he is now
charged with criminally negligent homicide. >> the young man who did this, he's young man,
8

but also somebody's life was taken somebody who was a contributor to the community. >> the
is being held on $250,000 bail. family members tell us he's a good kid. he'll be back in court,
next week.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 1 • 6:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_8

Katherine: a group of people came together on the capitol today in support of assisted suicide.
there are bills in the Oregon legislature now that would be expand the opportunity for assisted
suicide which supporters say would help the elderly and disabled die with dignity. they say they
want people to have the choice on whether to live with a disability or choose to end their own
life when facing a disability or deadly disease. >> when god gave me the heart attack, he
decided my life was over. but then a man came in playing god and started my heart and they
took me to a facility where a bunch of people made money keeping me alive. and these are just
things that people shouldn't have to go through if they don't want to. >> Katherine: one of the
bills in the legislature would allow life ending medication used in assisted suicide to be taken
through injection. as law stands now that medication is only available as a pill to swallow, which
may not be an option for disabled people who are unable to swallow.
KONG-SEA
Apr 1 • 7:11 PM

B_Apr_Wash_8

Michael Jackson’s ex-wife Debbie Rowe has kept a very low profile, but she is now going public
with her support for her daughter Paris. >> that's Paris Jackson getting a kiss from her mom
Debbie Rowe who is stepping out to see Paris perform with her band. >> you must be a proud
mother. >> I am very proud. >> also, on hand, brother prince and her godfather Macaulay
Culkin. she was showing support for Paris in the wake of reports that she tried to take her life.
the 911 call was just released. >> Paris denies she was trying to take her life. >> Paris Jackson
turns 21 on Wednesday, and we will be right back with much more "inside edition" after this.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 2 • 5:39 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_9

Tra'renee: welcome back to "afternoon live". in today's kind is better, we had 12 local schools
to see how students create kindness with a little lunch on the side. [music] >> I am a junior at
Morgan city high school, and I started, we dined together at my school. we dined together is a
club. it is worldwide, but we are the only Oregon school that has it now. its purpose is to make
sure no kids eat alone. >> I am from the Oregon police department. a school resource officer at
the high school. two years ago, I noticed, we kids that eat alone in the hallways for many
different reasons. I was talking to my wife and she found we dined together online so I sent him
an email that's how sandy cooper got involved as our student representatives. >> this room is
open everything will differ kids to come into. they can just socialize and get to know each other
9

more. every other Tuesday, we have a meeting where they come in here and I have speakers
come. We had pizza. games and just really focused on getting to know each other. >> I think it's
a lot of fun for people don't get to eat with a lot of people. you get to meet new people and >>
some of them have things going on at home that maybe aren't positive. you bring them to a
positive environment and it's surprising how fast they will turn around. >> I think the coolest
thing about this club here is kids that have sat alone or never said a word are now in the class
talking to tons of people and getting to know a lot more it opens opportunities to those people.
kids. I definitely feel like this club makes them happier to come to school. better at speaking to
new people and making new connections. it's great. >> I started talking to more people. I used
to be really shy when talking to people who I think are more in higher authority. I began to talk
with them and figure out they're pretty nice. >> we had one student that was suffering from
depression. he was invited down to this club. he started making friends down here. it had
suicidal thoughts at one point. he has made a huge positive change and smiles and he's happy.
he interacts with other I would encourage people to start this at their own school because so
many kids get left to the side and ignored. a simple spot for them to go eat lunch together and
say why don't you eat lunch with us will make a huge difference in their lives. >> the
atmosphere and the heart behind it. the willingness to try to bring people together. a lot of
times in high school, people feel isolated. but bringing people together to make people feel
welcome and stuff like that but it's truly amazing. >> I think it's impacted me a lot because it
makes me a better person. >> this has impacted my life so much. I can't explain it because it
makes me think of the world differently. someone may be a long. sometimes I see a kid or
before this club, i'd be too scared to go up to them. after this, I have no struggles saying hi. >>
all of these people are so incredibly nice. I feel like if we take the time to get to know them and
put aside our differences, our world can be a better place. >> Tra'renee: I love this! we dined
together. we will have more information about kind is better at katu.com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 2 • 7:04 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_10

sad news out of Tualatin where a Sherwood high school student was killed by a car just after
11:00 last night on highway 99 west southwest hole road. the teen died at ohsu. police say he
may have intentionally stepped in front of the car. the driver is cooperating with police. the
school district says the student was Stephen Ventura, a Georgetowner. research shows for
every person who completes suicide there are 280 who seriously think about it but embrace life
instead. you can call the national tromple suicide lifeline.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 2 • 9:31 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_11

deb: this is new at 6:00, Oregon lawmakers are also taking on teen suicide. two bills introduced
today tackle the issue. senate bill 707 would establish a permanent committee of health
experts, nonprofits, and the general public that would recommend ways to combat teen
suicide. the second bill would require mental health officials notify educators, drug treatment
advisors, and others about any suicide. so that everyone is in the loop. in Oregon, suicide is the
10

second leading cause of death among people 10-24 years of able. >> Steve: lawmakers in
Washington want to know more about the impact social media and smartphones have on
teens' mental health. the state's house, human services, and early learning committee heard
from experts about how smartphones and social media use has gone up dramatically in the past
few years. and some even tied that increase to a higher teen suicide rate. right now, the
Washington legislature isn't considering a bill on this topic, but these work sessions can
sometimes be the genesis for future legislation. >>> depressed, constantly suicidal. >> scared to
go to school, stomach aches, crying at night. >> kids deal with different things than we did. >>
deb: youth mental health has been the topic of our station project, "kind is better," for the last
year. now we're teaming up with media outlets from across Oregon to break the silence about
the state's suicide crisis. next week you're going to see t.v. stations, newspapers, radio reports,
all talking about suicide because research shows talking about it isn't putting the idea in
someone's head, it's extending a hand, and offering hope. coming up in an unprecedented
report, Monday, 8th at 6:30, we focus on one behavior that happens in the halls of your child's
school and follows them everywhere they go.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 2 • 11:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_12

Yeah and that the case had just been counting on things to know Butterfield she died by suicide
there last year Butterfield family told me that years ago she's been diagnosed with paranoid
schizophrenia and Research shows that suicide is among the leading causes of early death for
people with mental illness that the jail isn't talking to us because there's a potential lawsuit
down so it's really not clear to us how her mental illness was treated or if it was treated at all
but in investigating her death we've got a lot of records and the records in a kind of show that
the jail failed to keep her safe for herself and experts we've spoken to say Jonas signs
Butterfield was potentially suicidal in the days before she died she stopped coming to sell
another inmate said she stopped eating and her family says they spoke to her in jail she was
confused it was difficult to understand she was housed alone in a cell and lot of experts point to
the fact that she was given the means to end her life in this case she hanged herself using bed
sheets for a bunk bed and it's particularly sad about her story is that so many suicides looked
into involved people in County jails who died by hanging using stuff from the jail clothing
bedding those kind of things and it about I mean these inmates are and he totally controlled
supervised setting and their bank business side Tony how much data was previously available
about these deaths is pretty limited.
B_Apr_Oreg_13

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 2 • 11:17 PM

There's actually a graph that day you help put together a picture shows this it's basically it's it
shows how long people have been in jail and how many people died based on the length of
time in lockup it's basically a downward slope by far the most people died in the very first or
second danger on the telly trail off the longer people have been there what is the craft tell you I
11

wasn't sure what to make of it what it tells me that jails are handling people who were in
extremely difficult situations and universal prices sometimes of mental health crises you know
intoxication physical illness that may have gone untreated we've done a lot of times people are
accessing healthcare engel that have not previously had consistent access to health care and so
the jail was how and where they get healthcare Yeah and so what's happened is Gilles are
ending up and is you live and where these people are landing when they're not getting help or
services along the way and they're landing in jails under you're not set up to handle that type of
population Conrad as you mentioned about half of these deaths are by suicide if people are in
custody and their lives are really controlled I mean basically every aspect of fear of your life and
ease and suicide largely preventable have the necessary no cause. Yes I mean, so we posed that
question to a lot of people and both those who work incursion settings as well as mental health
advocates to know a lot about what's happening inside jails on any really different answers
we'll tape was your first John Bishop he's head of the Oregon state chair Association and the
former sheriff of Kern County are going to happen I think this summer is going to kill
themselves are going to do it I just don't I think in theory maybe you could say could be
preventable but not practically versions of a win John Bishop their earnings picture Association
missing were echoed by a lot John officials basically saying you know we are trying our best but
things do happen it's really hard to keep people safe who are intent on hurting themselves at
the same time you know we heard there's comments and random by others including Iraq life
she's managing attorney for the mental health threats project has a disability rights or again
and Here's how she responded to those comments I mean I feel like there are a lot of steps that
can be taken and in order to keep people safe and we know a lot about suicide rescued in terms
of what those risk factor is even for an individual who doesn't Pan out and saying that I’m
feeling suicidal so I don't think that we should accept us at this rate of suicide in jail it's
inevitable not going to surround close for disability rights Oregon spent a lot of time in jails
around the state talking to inmates and staff and she said as our data and findings showed that
the security focused tools jails have at their disposal are not effectively mitigating and reducing
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 2 • 11:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_14

One of the things that I certainly was trying to illustrate when I was the ghost conference was
that there is quite frankly this this this cancerous the dark web say power is being will fully put
on the internet that of course that takes the guise of Momo maybe Charlie game more even
slender man where do these characters are creepy pasta they are you know they're just images
that appeals to all its hopes to be his once called a hoax but now the reason why the meeting
called the hope is they want a lawsuit been awesome to sue their kid does commit suicide they
do something about the influence of kids influence play about things such as these it's not just
the Momo it's not just the slender man it is the archetype it represents these characters and
their ancient and they're all good there all time evil that have been around for a millennial they
take on different faces they take on different names but all boils down to is raiing gable says his
infernal man the state goes all the way down to the darkest of powers and we need to fight
those powers we understand their psychic energy is they could be used to create was called a
psychic dictatorship where people fall for the what we call the this swarm intelligence the
12

collective intelligence becomes darkened by these archetypes Islam those with us tonight to
talk about these topics because I followed be important have psychic who has been through a
lot the discussed these said this areas these various our ties being I know if you're aware of you
know some things happened with movil arrived on the scene she arrived back this whole
character idea arrived in august 2018 they give much fanfare kids allegedly apart the blue
whale challenge number people said there's no such thing but like other kids were found to be
committing suicide early being program and then it went away he came back again in a very
interesting time when moment came back again there are a number of things were going on
that I pointed out that dumb win image showing the image of Momo should buy the internet
sloan is back is almo it was February I believe she first showed up again it was just right after
the bar it's governor Andrew Cuomo actually signed the reproductive health act into law
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 2 • 11:44 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_15

I had a conversation with another a psychic who was across from me she said never in her life
she seems such reaction to something such as this this is something that is dark something that
cannot be explained, it's not a hoax it's something that certainly triggers some very dark
feelings in people it triggers a lot of trauma she said that's why russ loan on because that
wanted infected the next hour we talk a lot about some of the people she's channeled in the
past there are actually some of them were suicide victims, some well-known suicide victims
who topped at actually champions them children who committed suicide […]
I absolutely feel it is a war of good and evil. It isn't political, isn't anything we're hearing on the
news media, it is the earth is flipping because we've actually been in the lowest vibration and
it's slipping around trying to elevate the vibration which people don't want because people are
comfortable living the way they lit, however that is and so a lot of people aren't even aware
that the undercurrent is spiritual and what's happening is see okay how do I explain this
because I could meditate on this I asked him to show me what was going on and I was kind of
taken on a little dirty out the store level during summer meditations when I was showing is
what you're talking about when these kids commit suicide and there were people adult people
commit suicide and they're being called worse it's really murder by a demon on the underside
of murder by spirit and so when people say my loved one committed suicide and it hurts him
reading the person I’m like no this wasn't a suicide in the traditional sense this person did not
want to kill themselves this person was coerced into doing it energetically and that's what's
going on the planet right now. We are fighting actually really bloody spiritual war and children
where's fight and for the children most people don't know that most people have given up on
that fox did his spiritual and the undercurrent is on me ask a level it isn't on the earth claim
we're beginning to see parts of the astral level seek truth that's what the issue is who's worse
seeing people who are responding to the demonic or negative energy on the other side it really
is actually say versus god if you want to look at it that way that's truly what it is true.

13

FM News 101 KXL
Apr 3 • 12:40 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_16

So of a lot of rumors on the internet with regard to what happened with Chris Cornell
Soundgarden Chester Bennington of Linkin Park and both Cornell in Bennington allegedly were
victims of suicide however there are some people believe foul play was involved in both cases
both Bennington and Cornell we're working on trying to lump expose those who wish to harm
children they were involved with a lot of projects to help young people and that's the
conspiracy I guess you are Spain’s guys spread around they didn't commit suicide saw you
channel it that you channel both having him I did so accidental leak which is interesting I fellow
client who is a musician who asked me 3 days after Chris Cornell passed away what the hell
happened the know his words not mine and I so I didn't even look into it I didn't truthfully when
someone passes I mean you know I hear it but it doesn't stop me because we all die so I just go
about my business it was of course it was became somewhat myself directly but I immediately
said the word pedophile when my ass okay so I didn't even know why said that at first I was
horrified at what I said I thought I i hope I don't mean he's a pedophile that's what I thought my
head right that was the word came out of my mouth just came flying out of my mouth you're
reading so I took it upon myself ever probably about a year later it was about a year later to sit
down and actually asked what half the end the best way I could do with that idea my work and
with Chris there was so much shame and so much guilt around what she had gone all in with
and I was showing all kinds of things I was showing I was showing maps I was I kept being so
one a barbecue because I kind of went from channeling Chris Chester was a lot more outspoken
than Chris was kind of shy and sensitive for real even on the other side and nesters straight up
stood in front of my face as much as a dead person can and said I can't believe people think kill
myself like he was just like so animated I didn't kill myself I did not kill myself this is not what I
did I didn't do it he was actually is off but he had an aggressive his this is not what he did also
was the best said this looks like something was meant to look like a suicide but really maybe
something also of course the descent of the suicide but on the opposite sometimes we crimes
season meant to be looking like they were the joy as suicide but this was a staged crime scene
yes coldly totally stage because he didn't commit suicide
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 1:14 AM

B_Apr_Wash_9

Interview with Danny Goldberg, Nirvana’s band manager about his new book serving the
servant remembering Cobain. Danny, I like people to listen to that song is learning how many
had played on base and learning how to play come as you are on a car I had this realization that
a lot of people like me have such a deep affection for nirvana for so many reasons one of them
is that it's the first step we learn how to play an instrument to know that's not cool he would
curb I’m sure we love knowing that he he would he love younger people and you like the most
of his fans I mean there were some people became fans when the dam was huge that him unChristian talk about is the kind of guys that would kick their high school so he is in love every
14

aspect of that mass audience but the real people love that I understood what he did or fans he
really appreciated and was doing what he did with them in mind it can you think of a specific
misconception about Kurt that doesn't square with the guy you knew I you know I don't really
know about exact misconceptions accept the he was and he had a great sense of humor he had
a great work ethic when it came to his are and he was a sweet heart to most of the people
around him most of the time them I don't know whether that addresses misconceptions but
there are things that I think not always emphasized as much as 80 for want to emphasize what I
wrote about him when I think about him is tough sometimes to thank I put this is tough to hold
onto the memories of your friend Kurt the guy who was in your office the guy here with
backstage when he's become this sort of mythical character in pop culture know I’ve worked
with other famous people and you know I was started in the music business when I was 18 and
I was 40 by the time I’m encouraged and so over the years I’ve been able to compartmentalize
pretty well but the difference between the public person in private what I’ve gotten to know
them it is difficult to deal with the positive memories I have been and the harm of his suicide
and you know anybody who's been close to someone to kill themselves knows that is the kind
of thing you never completely get over it but I did the best I could to paint departure I can paint
and you know hopefully that residents would be blue read it you mention that you write in the
book that people like Chris another seleka christmas nevada's bass player and kurtz enough as
you can tell from the book I had with him from the beginning of this thing yeah how angry he
fell briefly angry he felt with Kurt after Kurt’s death by suicide how would you feel or well I’m
you know at the time I was just sort of shock so I don't really remember exactly all my feelings
at the time except one of sadness and shock what I can tell you it better how I feel now when I
reflect on it which is and I understand people who were close to home for dinner angry the he
did best and that's very I say that the prevailing view of a lot of people that were close to him I
just don't feel that way I feel grateful he was alive for as long as he was and I’ve chosen to look
at it as the he died from illness did that no one knew how to cure and there was a mental illness
not a physical one who although the brain is part of the body I just I just don't look at it as a
moral failing on his part I look at it is a tragedy and I look back and loosely as any of us do
wondering she afraid that a death sentence of 5 benedetta her final event that phone call
having anybody is known someone to kill themselves goes through that but I just look at a
certain part of it as a mysterious element that sensor in human beings yeah I think in the u.s.
they say 50000 people a year killed themselves three-quarters of them male half of the murrow
buy guns hundreds of thousands around the world and psychiatrists and rabbis and priests and
philosophers of study this haven't really come up with an explanation why some people do and
some don't so high I just look at it izzy he died young but I’m glad he was alive I love him and I
wish she was still around but I’m grateful he was here at all during my lifetime I got to meet him
and he left us this this art you know I was thinking that I was born 87 so that's for 4 years is
before you started working with with Nirvana rights at least I was alive when Nirvana's
Nevermind came out in bear yeah I remember but then you think about like 15 and 14 year-old
kids see walking down the street now no wait never mind t shirts are with no yeah now I must
be the most meaningful if you know yeah it's one of the things I start the book would describing
seeing young kids poor young kid an occupy wall street a few years ago in New York coming up
to me s think a picture of me and I figured I had be mixed up with somebody else because there
were celebrities it will go down there from time to time and I know you used to work with Kurt
15

Cobain right I thought about this kid could they've even been alive when Kurt died and I do as
you just mentioned see younger people wearing t-shirts and if you go on Spotify the amount of
streams the nirvana gets his still very significant number you know given the fact that security
had been dead for 14 years when Spotify started and now certain works of art can transcend
generations and nationality he's not the only musical artist that the death but he is a short list
he's on that list for me with John Lennon, David Bowie, bob Marley I think Springsteen is among
living artist is on that list I think going back in time I think john Coltrane Billie holiday is a
handful of parties that have had that level of dap to create work they can transcend
generations and he's obviously one of them can you still listen to the record I listened to it a lot
what I was writing the book I wanted to really tune in to what it took to what he had done and
hearing his voice and particularly help me do that and right now as we are doing a show like
when you play in bloom just now I just had this big smile on my face because I just love that
song so much there is a long time I didn't listen was just too painful but that's the advantage of
25 years passing is eat them going through different stages so this particular time in my life I’ve
kind of reconnected with a lot of the music although admittedly there was at least a decade
where idea listen to it all because of beat the pants off there remembering brand and Danny
did to favor of like when you think of Kurt could watch the first image that comes to mind but
what you see in your head when you think about kirk pain you know I think his smile and I bet
that I’m not the only one who knew him personally who would give that answer he certainly
could be depressed and grumpy but boy when he smiled it was incredible he had these
beautiful blue eyes he had this kind of sense of humor in the smile kind of noticing the
absurdity of life but kind of owning it at that moment and it was also very warm so that's what I
always answer what I’m that question I always mean when I say it could sense even as we're
speaking one night thinking about so we're glad an owner rana son to do what song do think it
should be I think it should be all apologies wise I just love that song as much as I like it never
mind that it was obviously a huge moment in my career ice slightly prefer the song writing you
I think his death the some of the lyrics that he found the matured into and something about all
apologies that somehow touches a certain cosmic side of him if not all of the lyrics that did that
I like to go out on a high-end the last paragraph of the book I quote from then and that's the
one I haven't been asked that question before but the answer came immediately to me all
apologies I yeah I love you and thanks for talking to me today thank you so much for talking to
me.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 3 • 2:03 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_17

Multnomah county leaders pushing for a bill that would make pharmaceutical companies fund
drug take back programs. if the bill doesn't pass in the state, they'll come up with their own
plan for Multnomah county. house bill would require manufacturers of drugs to fund their own
take back programs. supporters say it could reduce drugs ending up in Oregon waterways from
being thrown away improperly. >>> also taking on teen suicide. two bills tackle the issue.
senate bill 707 would establish a permanent committee of health experts, non-profits, and the
general public that would combat teen suicide. the second bill would require mental health
officials notify educators, drug treatment advisors, and others about any suicide so everyone is
16

in the loop. in Oregon suicide is the second leading cause of death among people 10 to 24 years
old.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 3 • 2:40 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_18

woman speaking with kids and then to them harm themselves and love parents of 5th graders
and color element there's a large shark day after they were no 5 did not use of their own risks
morning appearance that the mogul challenge is now popping up one thing you can do more
for something or fall for that purpose for a moment and I feel very in the middle but officials
warn parents she pops up on YouTube ads during have been paid and fortnight videos cheap
it's kids step-by-step instructions on how to get a suicide and harm like yours too loud you roll
over means to live on the program you're like 6.4 these are the 7 under the strip believe 6.3 37
100 we go to holiday in Arizona high college young 0 0 hey don't do that then I had to make a
comment about the role of terms with how on earth you a just bank and we actually went to
school together wow and a lot of things we have more of our and bar were popping amy just
didn't seem right he cited the same minor is what suicide things right we had didn't seem real 0
sloan had to say right about channeling would eventually his personality it removes more about
their own personal life yeah a lot of crazy stuff going the to you all I love it I really do of our and
while he was in radio power in the mood for I think all kids control so I am and I wushu with
each playing our unique in Egypt yeah she ain't that cute word more own and I’m just in awe of
you so my goodness and give and give our gets a lot of people said he loved his kids he was a
good father and that of woods hit some good things going forward to having that happen was
such a shock and many people who knew and we thought you know this can be serious of
course they were working together the try and help children and try to expose those who wish
to harm children I think that that that always seems to be a case of those were in the process of
helping children sometimes find themselves in a very bad situation because it is ugly what she
would do with what is being a children today lou you him or college thank you so much for your
insight I’m just really appreciate it earn good teachers and good it and Indiana Ohio I grow and
passed through during repeated your emotional few days ago yeah I happen to I happen to
think about the odds seem some fortune I saw brood the time period when you pushed third
book about I didn't know were you aware of these things and and truthfully I’m not aware
whether marker for you your law but I’ve seen bad that inspires seem right dials I seen a free
download it goes I know I am on board now not in a memo it so isolates a triage is that the
smallwood for error it amount of that really kind of freaked me out was after doing maria p
show this weekend on Saturday I was and my god and restaurant I said these two girls were
gusting to be pre teenagers like a toy may each said on a t-shirt with a big face-off again it
wasn't labeled momo but ibm's but I listened to a knee and the other one said believe what I
saw today really yell I i didn't seem that merchandise that's it then the lucrative advertising but
basically like billboards yeah now I was just a few days ago two days ago in our brief 3 days ago
was like what I i actually had some shirts made up I made mobile into a cartoon in ice's
surviving momo tour you know basically saying busy your way of surviving not be saying hey
this is what I say and do they do if you're mr kill yourself those are things that I’ve seen culture
jamming using motion these areas they have like a john Lennon and Yoko Ono there's you know
17

that billy idol singing the midnight hour cried momo abo it is jam jamming using it to make it
funny but that takes the wind out of some of it when you do stuff like that but I would say that
as they say once you take the wind out of one thing there's always another icon or another
image is going to be ill will is going to be released on the public again 8 trying to create their the
next slide Nevada he's trying to push out a new toll but they can escape the bonds of the
internet and show up in the minds of children teaching them to kill teaching to do drugs to
induce something stupid like eating tide pods again something it certainly would be you know a
detrimental to the growth of a child how I am and people I listened to your guest tonight I’m of
crude to in the past 10 days to two weeks or on kepler you sure I rode to turn to the psyche of
better than anybody are the people that wrote really were concentrating them a veto that I
that we have to get back to work it's for the slate is so fewer human of some sort of an album
sing cool wow yeah you know
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 3 • 8:20 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_19

I’m here today to speak for children and express my strongest possible support for legislation to
protect children and adolescents from preventable firearm injury and death judiciary due to
brief story this one involves a patient of mine this winter killed himself there were no warning
signs school was going well he came from a family that was loving stable unsupportive his
friends were solid he had no history of depression or behavior issues there were no warning
signs at all one morning like any other his family returned from errands and found him lying on
the floor his room dying the gun at his side and a suicide note in his desk he found a gotten a lot
done in a moment of distress and killed himself there's one thing that I know he was really
looking forward to that was graduation from elementary school as a pediatrician I cared for 3
year-old toddler good times parents handgun in a bedside table I period of several seconds
then attention from the parents it's completely understandable. the child found the gun
explored it went off we tried to save him the emergency department we could not I can never
wipe away the memory of sitting in a room telling the parents of the child was dead or
watching the week over her dead son.
KMTR (NBC)
Apr 3 • 8:32 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_20

Oregon lawmakers are also taking on teen suicide -- with two bills introduced Tuesday to tackle
the issue/// senate bill 707 would establish a permanent committee of health experts, nonprofits, and the general public that would recommend ways to combat teen suicide. /// the
second bill would require mental health officials to notify educators, drug treatment advisors
and others about any suicide-- so that everyone is in the loop. /// in Oregon, suicide is the
second leading cause of death among people 10-to- 24 years old.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 3 • 9:05 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_21

18

today all eyes will once again be on a small California county as investigators release the
findings into the deaths of Hart family excels Jim Freddie explains the process. A special jury of
8 women and 6 men will hear from aid investigators in one pathologist about the evidence
collected trying to answer why Jennifer Hart drove an s.u.v. that carry her family on that coastal
cliff former clatsop county district attorney josh marquis says it's called a coroner's inquest and
it's meant to determine what happened but he doesn't feel any charges will come of it you that
there was a determination that played some sort completely dropped the ball and not done the
investigation that's not the purpose of the he says the main goal of the two-day inquest is to
determine if the cause of death was accidental or if it was a murder-suicide
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 3 • 9:29 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_22

today the final chapter begins and the investigation of the crash that killed a Washington family
of eight. nationwide, people have been interested in the Hart family's case. officials are offering
the rare opportunity to listen to evidence live this morning as part of the coroner's inquest. the
idea is to present a special jury with all the information from investigators and have them
decide how the family died. whether it was an accident, intentional, by suicide or caused by
someone else. investigators say the mother, Jennifer hart, was driving the vehicle when it went
over the cliff. Jennifer’s wife, Sarah, and their six adopted children were all in the car. there
were no skid marks at the scene to indicate any braking. a live stream of the testimony today
will be available on the Mendocino county sheriffs Facebook page starting at 9 am. it is set to
run several days.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 9:45 AM

B_Apr_Wash_10

He served 21 years in the military including multiple deployments and now the recently retired
soldier from DuPont is walking across the country to raise awareness about veteran suicide.
Hannah Scott caught up with him just over a week into his journey Dave jimmy know that
started his trek across the country on March 22nd any plans ended August 22nd when he gets
to Disney world in Florida his goal is to walk 20 miles a day notice the pattern of 22 it was
intentional but that number coincides with one reports put the number of military and veteran
suicides 22 day other reports put the number closer 20 day at the way jimmy says even one is
too many any hopes spreading his message during his months-long informal walk can make a
difference I think this journey is going to be very good for me on a personal level and I think
that it will be very good for the community that time we can help the poor in that community is
essentially anyone who has served or is serving in the military who may be struggling and
hopefully as he shares his own story very public way he can help them reach out to get the help
they may need to knows just how tough that can be it took years he first started having issues
during his first Iraq deployment when he was just outside the Chow hall bombing happened
Clinton several of his fellow soldiers lives it was just a lot the jimmy wasn't killed in he
developed severe survivor's guilt survivor's guilt was plagued by nightmares and just couldn't
get away from the fought that should have been him that thought finally led to a plan to take
19

his own life do drive around when I got back to my room if my room it wasn't there before I had
go to bed with a clear my way and make sure that I wasn't around in that because it was the
crowd groaned and sometimes a place where the muzzle direction and sometimes place in my
mouth and I wondered which point of entry would be most likely to make sure the deal was
done it he did that at least once a day for more than two months on deployment he can explain
why or why one day he just stopped but he's grateful he never acted on it years later after
returning from his second tour in Iraq he continued to struggle but had a new awaited deal with
it Something he didn't have on deployment lose that might help a great thing but a bit more
then we really don't think it's a negative feeling good … in my life I was very concerned about
the level of corruption that they had going on but it never tweet a real world for me he was
functioning but drinking out of control for years and admits he often thought how much she
would have to drink to just never wake up eventually he was stationed here in Washington to
finish out his career he enjoyed his new assignment look forward to going to work every day
and things are great with his wife and 3 kids but several days when to cut myself I basically
feeling like I was going to vomit or something was for you worry I did my opinion was in tears
and said this is what it actually was a foot and I was just like it too much I have because seek
help I got to go talk to somebody about what's going heart and that's when he finally saw help a
decision he says absolutely saved his life Stuart like a huge weight it is a good list for my spirit I
almost felt like I was walking on air each time that I the aim of rolling in it
AM 860
Apr 3 • 10:20 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_23

We expect to learn more about two hours about how the 7 members of the hart family from
woodland Washington died terry Murray is you remember the car plunged off a cliff on the
coast of California in march of last year Jennifer insert hard and 5 of their adopted children
found dead after the car fell into the pacific in Mendocino county calling 6 news is reporting
Jennifer hard he was driving was legally drunk at the time of the crash and for a short time it all
seemed like a tragic accident and decking into question in short order our county sure office
sergeant brand board dell's says investigators were never able to locate a suicide note or
message now with Mendocino county sheriff's office report wrapped up the corners inquest is
set for today we expected to be told the cause of death for 7 members of the hart family
remains of their 6th child divide tape not yet been found he's presumed to have died as well
this morning's inquest will provide another piece to the ongoing puzzle
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 11:30 AM

B_Apr_Wash_11

news today officials in Mendocino county California will begin to release their findings from a
year-long investigation into the deaths of a southwest Washington family all 8 members of the
hart family died just over a year ago after their s.u.v. plunged off a coastal cliffs Oregon public
broadcasting molly solemn the reports this week in Mendocino county sheriff's office is holding
a coroner's inquest into the deaths it's the final chapter in a year-long investigation by multiple
agencies that cross state lines and alleged multiple reports of child abuse and neglect.
20

Investigators believe Jennifer hurt accelerated the car before driving off coastal cliff killing her
wife Sarah in all 6 of their adopted children over the next two days emergency responders
investigators an apologist presents evidence to 14 jurors detailing the days and hours that led
to the deadly crash the jury will then be asked to decide the cause of death for each of the
hearts according to California state law the options are death by natural causes suicide an
accident or at the hands of another the jury is expected to make a decision by Friday
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 3:30 PM

B_Apr_Wash_12

he recently retired from the army after 21 years now a retired soldier from DuPont he's walking
across the country to raise awareness about veteran suicide and PTSD Khyber radios and
sconces up to 20 vets a day die by suicide after multiple tours of duty in Iraq jimmy no access
for from survivor's guilt depression and more he spent months doing dryer runs to take his own
life and years later trying to drink himself to death before finally reaching out for help like a
huge lead with period I don't like walking on air here now know that has been on the road
nearly two weeks as he walks from DuPont to Disney world stopping to talk with everyone he
can along the way to share his story and hopefully help others realize there's nothing to fear
about reaching out for help he's also hoping to continue his own healing along the way
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 3:57 PM

B_Apr_Wash_13

reporter on this project just published a new piece today Sydney what has surprised you most
about this investigation think one of the biggest surprising things was that was the risk of
putting someone alone in a single cell increase the risk of suicide by about 9 fault just but just
where someone is place you published this story today about a man named Jeremy lavender
can you tell us Jeremy story yes so journey was a veteran of the iraq war who came home to
your wife and baby with PTSD and traumatic brain injury from being a Humvee that exploded
and came back to Washington he started using drugs to cope with his illnesses and he
developed a substance-abuse disorder he fathered two kids but he spiral the mother of his
second child filed no contact order but she still try to get them into treatment with no success
and various court documents over the years described him as homeless and trained at a decade
after he got back from Iraq he was arrested after he was accused of shoplifting from Walmart
and cops found a gram of math some pills couple of grams of heroin on him these in
Washington state are felony charges so he's putting the slammed county jail judge set bail at
5000 $ and stayed there for a little over a week he was dealing with a lot all at once used
detoxing from heroin his underlying mental health issues that were causing used drugs were
there he is getting seizures from his traumatic brain injury and experts that we've talked to
have put us in jail is the last place he shot someone dealing with these issues there totally and
equipped to deal with them so journey was initially put on suicide watch he was then taken off
and then I was placed as I mentioned before in a single cell which research shows has the
highest risk for suicide and he killed himself. just one story Sydney what some interventions
that could help fix this one thing that's going to happen soon as a result of a lawsuit against the
21

state of Washington for its treatment of people with mental illness in jail is that police officers
will be able to divert people from jail at the point of arrest so rather than books someone on a
low level nonviolent charges have been deteriorate in jail away from services police have the
ability to divert someone with mental illness to preach travel services of course that the success
of this effort depends on the services that are available in the community and often times they
aren't city brownstone to have a few seconds there's there is another question you want to get
answered banks I think I just want to point out how common these issues are we found that
one in 5 people who died in jail during pretrial detention were booked on misdemeanor
charges also found that one in 5 who died in pretrial detention where their on charges involving
drugs or alcohol mental illness poverty substance abuse these there's a lot of reasons why
someone might end up in jail I think there's a few especially in Seattle that as someone is
dealing with housing instability some of these issues there are lesser and beans but often I
thing is that people in jail because of failures of a ago and you is that are rooted in trauma city
brownstone is Kate O’Dell is online and deter reporter we heard from reporter Austin Jacobs
there to on new reporting initiative called booked and buried want to remind you that suicide is
preventable if you are struggling you can call or text the national suicide prevention lifeline
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 3 • 5:06 PM

B_Apr_Wash_14

An inquest began today into the deaths of Washington family after their S.U.V. with off a cliff in
California more than a year ago almost to remarry has more the two-day inquest is for jurors to
determine the manner of death for each member of the hart family and Jennifer hard her
partner Sarah and 5 of their 6 adopted children died in a crash on March 26 the 2018 a 6th child
remains missing investigators believe he was also killed in that crash officer Michael coming in
with California highway patrol testified that at the bottom of the cliff off highway one
emergency crews found the S.U.V. with two people inside and 3 others outside by the time the
vehicle pulled up there was one individual remaining in the vehicle weeks later they would find
Jennifer Hart was drunk at the time of the crash and reports of child abuse and neglect
surrounded the family inquest jurors may decide whether the crash was accidental murder
suicide committed by Jennifer heart or plan carried out by both parents
KOHD (ABC)
Apr 3 • 6:07 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_24

Authorities in California will hold a coroner's inquest to determine the manner of death for
eight members of a southwest Washington family whose vehicle plunged off a coastal cliff last
year. the SUV went off the cliff 160 miles north of san Francisco in March of 2016. the driver of
the s.u.v. had a blood alcohol level above the legal limit and Sarah and two of the children had a
large amount of Benadryl in their system. during the inquest, the grand jury will hear whether
the deaths were accidental or a murder-suicide. all bodies have been found except one teenage
boy's body which has never been found
KATU-POR (ABC)

B_Apr_Oreg_25

22

Apr 3 • 7:00 PM
the significant toxicology for Sarah was Benadryl. >> Steve: enough to kill. that's what the
forensic pathologist said about the amount of Benadryl in Sarah hart's body at the time of her
death. thanks for being with us, I’m Steve Dunn. >> deb: and I’m Debora Knapp. we've been
watching for hours now as day one of the Hart family coroner's inquest in Mendocino county.
the goal is to lay out evidence for a jury who will decide the manner of death for each family
member. those possibilities include accidental, natural cause us, or suicide, or at the hands of
another person. >> Steve: Kellee azar is live in the newsroom where she's been watching this
inquest for us today. you learned Sarah had a lot of Benadryl in her system, but that's not how
she died? >> Kellee: I’ve been watching the inquest live online all day long since 9:00 this
morning. while the amount of Benadryl that she had in her system could have killed her, a
forensic pathologist says it was blunt force trauma and separation of her neck internally that is
what killed her as well as her wife Jennifer and a number of the kids. in addition, Mendocino
county a bulk of the day was spent with a forensic pathologist who performed the autopsies on
Jennifer, Sarah, Marcus, Abigail, Jeremiah, and sierra hart. while some details were known, we
are getting a better understanding of each one's cause of death. along with what else may have
been going on in that SUV before it plunged off a cliff. the doctor says none of the children nor
Sarah had seat belts on. he also found Benadryl in the system in each of them. he says the
Benadryl levels in the four kids he autopsied were high, but not to toxic levels like Jennifer. >>
it's fair to say he had a significant amount of the chemical in his system at the time of autopsy.
>> he had a significant, but the level was not close to the toxic range. >> Kellee: the doctor says
the amount in the children was more than the recommended dosage. the doctor also says of
the kids he was able to autopsy, all died with the same injury. basically, what amounts to an
internally severed neck. he says each one recovered suffered other continuing ries like cuts to
the face and boy which he believes came from the crash. coming up tonight at 5:00, it's a
question you guys have asked time and time again -- how were the kids health wise? were they
malnourished? the doctor answers that question and we'll bring you that answer at 5:00. Kellee
azar, katu news. >> deb: Kellee, thank you.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 3 • 7:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_26

We are learning new details tonight about the deaths of the Hart family. a year after they
plunged over a California cliffside. I’m Jennifer Hoff. >> and I’m Dan tilkin today. the deaths of
Jennifer and Sarah Hart and the six adopted children are being investigated. what do we know
so far? reporter: weird heard from law-enforcement officers and a forensic pathologist. there is
a group of jurors trying to decide the manner of death for the heart family. all eight of them.
the majority of the testimony was spent with a pathologist to detail the causes of death for
each family member. one of the children was never found. based on his toxicology report, the
driver Jennifer Hart had an alcohol level above the legal limit. the doctor also confirmed several
other family members had unusually high amounts of Benadryl in their system and even said
the other parent Sarah Hart had a toxic level of Benadryl. the officer detailed the scene
including some of the startling details of recovery. >> the vehicle straight up flipped onto its
23

roof. one of the passengers in the driver seat fell from the vehicle along with a bag. reporter:
officers detailed how the cliffside was an obscene. there were no signs of the vehicle trying to
stop. one of the officers says he had never seen anything like it. the later portion of today's
testimony was on the history of child abuse accusations that go back to 2011 in Minnesota. and
at the end of the inquest, jurors will decide between either natural causes, and accident,
suicide, or debt at the hands of another -- a death at the hands of another. this was just the first
day of the inquest that is expected to take several days. then the jury can reach their
conclusion. we will be following along live as it unfolds. Dan: the coroner's inquest is a very rare
type of hearing to happen. we have been following the death of the Hart family since it
happened. See all the details about the inquest online by going to koin.com.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 3 • 8:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_27

A rare coroner's inquest is underway, a jury will decide how the Hart family died after their car
around off a cliff a year ago. KXL is following the story in Mendocino county holding its first
quarter's inquest in half a century into the Hart family's deaths a jury of 14 is hearing from
investigators a rescuer and doctor how their vehicle went off a cliff with Jennifer Hart behind
the wheel dr. Greg Hazera who did the autopsy explain how Jennifer died injuries especially
neck and right chest but his lawyer Matthew shard question him he pointed out she had an
alcohol level above the legal limit after all present in her system is that right that's correct and
ethanol is scientific terms floor alcohol hazaras is the other parents Sarah Hart had a toxic level
of Benadryl in her system, jurors will decide for each family member whether the death was
natural or accidental as suicide or at the hands of another person
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 3 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_28

Investigators have tried piecing together the deadly hart family car crash for more than a year.
the family's SUV was found at the bottom of a California cliff. remains of 7 of the 8 family
members were also found. today officials in Mendocino county held a coroner's inquest pre
septembering details to an injury. they've been following along, and we are live with the task
that jury now faces. >> pete the injure expected now to determine the mode and manner each
of the hart family members died. they heard testimony from the first responders and coroner
who performed autopsy. Devonta Hart, the only family member whose body was never
recovered no long considered a missing person. investigators believe he is dead. >> we received
a call. >> in March 2018 the Mendocino county sheriff's office found a SUV down a 100-foot
embankment and they found the bodies of Sara and Jennifer Hart. >> we were unable to locate
tire tracks if someone lost control. >> the remains of 5 kids were later found but 15-year-old
devonta hart was listed missing until now. today during a coroner's inquiry, the men casino
county sheriff say he is dead. they long claim they believe it was intention and now a 14-person
injury will decide whether each of the 8 members died of natural causes or each death was an
accident, an act of suicide or murder. >> you will not be asked nor is it relevant for this type of
hearing to determine either civil or criminal responsibility. >> the inquiry will last at least
24

through Thursday. today the jury panel heard from several law enforcement as well as the
forensic pathologist who handled the autopsy. Jennifer who was driving had a blood alcohol
content above the legal limit while Sara, Marcus and skwraeur identify I can't and Abigail had
significant amounts of ben drill in their systems. it was a lethal dose in Sara’s case. the cause us
of her death was internal decapitation. that's the ultimate cause of death for all the bodies
whose bodies were found except Sara and Hanna. he believes they all died almost instantly. >>
only a small portion of Hanna’s remains were covered and tock Colorado gist test was not
performed. and Sara Hart her tock Colorado skwreu report came back for negative. the doctors
believed its prolonged exposure to water skewed the results.
KMTR (NBC)
Apr 3 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_29

We start with breaking news about what appears to be a dramatic escape and ending to an
eight-year long kidnap mystery a 14-year-old boy safe tonight, after telling police he broke
loose from kidnappers that held him at an Ohio motel and identifying himself as the boy Illinois
authorities have been searching for since he disappeared from there in 2011. Ron Mott has late
details. >> reporter: timothy was just 6 years old in May 2011 when his mother checked him
out of school early and took him on a road trip including visits to water parks, some of it caught
on surveillance cameras three days later she killed herself at this Illinois motel. the note behind
saying that her boy was safe but that he would never be found >> we don't have solid leads
where timothy may be. >> reporter: there was blood found in her car that tested positive as
timothy's, but late today a possible major development. according to an Ohio police report, a
14-year-old named timothy pitzen told police officers he had just escaped two kidnappers, that
had been holding him for seven years, running from a red roof inn motel in the Cincinnati area,
across a bridge into Kentucky. the boy described his kidnappers as white men with bodybuildertype build, one with a spider tattoo on his neck, the other a snake tattoo on his arms police in
his hometown are working with the FBI his grandmother hopeful. >> I never have forgotten.
never stopped thinking about him every day.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 3 • 9:07 PM

B_Apr_Wash_15

Governor Inslee signed Brennen’s law, for a young man who didn't get the he needed Tim to
prevent his suicide. Essex porter is live in Olympia where Brennen’s mother watched the signing
of the law. >> reporter: so many times, so many times Rachel smith has climbed up the capitol
steps, her determination powered by the memory of her son. she has been on a journey to
keep other families from suffering the way she has, and she says it won't stop here. when we
last saw Rachel Smith, she was in a sea of symbolic tombstones representing those who died by
suicide including four years ago her son Brennen. she was with the governor's office as he
signed Brennen’s law. he's not here. he is not here because of a system that failed him and
because of consumer protections that did not exist that I believe this in some small way will.
truth in advertising. we will have accountability. >> reporter: as she told our Jesse jones two

25

years ago, she sought help with a plan when her son announced he was struggling. he waited
29 days for an appointment. he killed himself on day 24.
KLSR (FOX)
Apr 3 • 10:04 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_30

Deputies in Lincoln county are investigating an apparent murder suicide at a rv resort. it
happened last week at the wailers rest rv and camping resort in south beach. deputies
discovered the bodies of 87-year-old Charles young, and 64-year-old Carla Gustafson, both from
Tillamook. deputy say it appears Gustafson shot young, and that herself. the two are related,
and an investigation into that motive is underway.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 4 • 12:05 AM

B_Apr_Wash_16

The challenge walk across the country the cause raise awareness about veteran suicide in ptsd
here reporter Hannah Scott after multiple tours of duty in Iraq jim no max effort from survivor's
guilt depression and more he spent months doing dryer runs to take his own life and years later
trying to drink himself to death before finally reaching out for help like a huge weight has been
lifted off my spirit I almost felt like I was walking on air each time I came out those counseling
now know that has been on the road nearly two weeks as he walks from DuPont Washington to
Disney world stopping to talk with everyone he can along the way and shared his story Hannah
Scott for CBS news
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 4 • 7:45 AM

B_Apr_Wash_17

Governor Jay Inslee signed a bill that aims to prevent suicide. Brennen’s law is named for a
young man who didn't get the help he needed in time. Rachel smith told us years ago that she
sought help from her medical plan--- when her son Brennen confessed his depression and
cocaine addiction-- because it made promises of timely because it made promises of timely
help. Brennen was told he'd have to wait 29 days -- he killed himself on day 24.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 8:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_31

… for the last decade suicide has been the leading cause of death in County jails in the Pacific
northwest. That's according to an investigation by Oregon public broadcasting cable W and
Northwest News network Conrad Wilson has more since 2008 more than 120 people died by
suicide after being taken to County jails across Oregon and Washington the investigation found
that despite decades of concern about jail suicides and some progress being made Joe leaders
and elected officials have failed to do everything they could to protect inmates suicide
specifically hanging is by far the leading single cause of death the region's jails suicide accounts

26

for nearly half of all cases with no cause of death the suicide rate in Oregon and Washington
jails also exceeds the national average those rates are much higher than the rates outside of jail
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Apr 4 • 9:21 AM

B_Apr_Wash_18

new details about the southwest Washington family found dead after their SUV plunged over a
cliff in California more than a year ago a jury is now hearing testimony to determine whether
the case should be considered an accident or a murder suicide. investigators say Jennifer Hart
was at the wheel of the SUV when that car went over that cliff her blood alcohol level at the
time almost twice the legal limit. investigators say her life Sarah and several of their kids also
had drugs in their system that may have caused drowsiness five of the six kids have been their
bodies have been found they were found dead near the crash site the sixth the v.a. heart. his
body has never been recovered the crash happened just days after authorities opened an
investigation following allegations that the kids were being neglected
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 9:30 AM

B_Apr_Wash_19

and inquest is underway in California into the death of an entire southwest Washington family
all 8 members of the Hart family died just over a year ago after their s.u.v. plunged off a cliff a
forensic pathologist testified yesterday that an autopsy found Jennifer Hart was driving drunk
when the crash happened authorities have said your wife Sarah and several children have large
amounts of drugs that can cause drowsiness in their systems Oregon public broadcasting molly
Sullivan is at the inquest in Mendocino county she says 14 jurors will determine the cause of
death according to California state line options alert death by natural causes suicide an accident
or at the hands of another the jury is expected to make a decision by Friday the fatal crash
happened just days after authorities in Washington state opened an investigation following
allegations that children are being neglected
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 9:41 AM

B_Apr_Wash_20

Suicide is the leading cause of death in county jails in the pacific northwest that's according to
an investigation by public media Oregon public broadcasting. Conrad Wilson has more, and
please note this story contains descriptions of suicide and may not be suitable for all of us
cheers after 40 days in the joseph king county jail jemele everybody field hanged herself using a
bedsheet in her cell. I was one that Robert sell corrections deputy Josephine county jail and he's
speaking to Oregon state police who investigated Butterfield’s death last September on the day
she died soon as I saw that I got on the radio when I called Butterfield died behind bars and the
age of 30 I never was suspected Butterfield to do this I mean she was always you know a little
strange little bit different but she never seen it like that time according to an investigation by
northwest public media newsrooms since 2008 at least 122 people have died by suicide after
27

being taken to county jails across Oregon and Washington. The investigation found despite
decades of concerns about jail suicides and of progress being made, jail leaders and elected
officials have failed to take all necessary steps to curb the problem and protect inmates Oregon
house majority leader Jennifer Williamson says the investigation shows something's wrong I
mean it shows me that we have people who are very sick and mentally ill in our facilities we
don't have to deal with them and because we don't have to deal with them they are dying and
that's unacceptable years before she died Butterfield was diagnosed with schizophrenia and
she's healthy gap after gap in the healthcare system before landing in a county jail that records
show failed to keep her safe from herself Butterfield was in jail on misdemeanor charges the
visiting county sheriff's office won't talk about Butterfield to out citing potential pending
litigation also refused to discuss their suicide prevention efforts we don't know if or how the gel
treated her mental illness think talking to her human and Pete you obviously know something's
not right before she died Butterfield on susan tobs sent the jalen email alerting them of
Butterfield mental illness she never heard back but tubs says she spoke on the phone with her
niece in the weeks before she died elect conversation we had the you know obviously he was
very other inmates told investigators her mood changed she stopped eating and hitting the
corners ever sell many joke commanders say the top thing they worry about his suicide but
some of them say they're not preventable third going to happen john bishop is the executive
director of the Oregon state chair association I think this summer is going to kill themselves are
going to do it I just don't I think in theory maybe you could say could be preventable would not
practical I don't think that we should accepts this rate of suicide fatality in jail it's enough to
vault Sarah Radcliff is the managing attorneys for disability rights Oregon and she's met with
inmates and jail administrators around the state we know a lot about suicide rest you know in
terms of what those risk factors even for an individual who doesn't come out. I’m not saying
that I’m feeling suicidal. Suicides like Butterfield where inmates use bedding and their bed
frame to hang themselves have been well documented concern for decades restore us go
earlier this year Earnhardt jr commander rick bishop gave a tour is very crowded jail in April
2017 the jail in Vancouver Washington made up controversy will change because of the
potential 10 the risk we have done away with bed sheets instead the deal gives extra blankets
this is a resistant there ordered caro but the bed sheets have to go you have the potential for a
self-harm and key speaking from experience between 2012 and 2016, 9 people died by suicide
in jail those deaths in a short amount of time bright spotlight Honda accord canning mean jail
the jail made other changes to they installed molded plastic bunks that are hard to tie things
done they got rid of many traditional doorknobs shower hooks and they train their officers
about how to better manage mental health crises the jail has not had a suicide since July 2016
I’m coming Wilson in Portland the store's part of our ongoing series booked and buried by
northwest public radio stations for more information go to our website KNKX.com and if you or
someone you know is contemplating suicide call for help the National Suicide Prevention
hotline number
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 4 • 7:52 PM

B_Arp_Oreg_32

28

breaking news we want to let you know about right now from Mendocino county, where the
jury has returned with its decision in that Hart family inquest. less than an hour after testimony
ended, they did conclude that each of the children died at the hands of another, meaning this
was not an accident. they also determined Jennifer and Sarah Hart died by suicide. we'll have
much more on this late-breaking news tonight at 5:00.
B_Apr_Oreg_33

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 4 • 7:58 PM

The jurors declared that both the father and son died as a result of suicide. the jurors ruled that
the kids died as a result of another, and the deaths were not an accident. Dan: before the ruling
today, we have the clearest picture yet of what happened during the cast that killed all eight
members of that family from woodland. during today's hearing, multiple California investigators
all concluded Jennifer Hart intentionally killed her family by driving off a cliff. >> 1 second is
zero, 2 seconds, 16 miles per hour, 3 seconds, 20 miles hour as it goes over the edge. Dan:
timothy roloff and the California high patrol determined the hart SUV went from standing still
to the gas pedal floored as Jennifer Hart sat behind the wheel legally drunk. >> we have the
throttle going from 34% to 100%, and no brakes. during that time, you're going from idling, the
break has been on, then the throttle is going to 100%. you are accelerating to 20 miles per hour
as you head toward the cliff face. our analysis of the data was that this was consistent with this
being an intentional act. Dan: at first, investigators thought it was an accident until they got the
data from the SUV’s black box, but even before, investigators realized this wouldn't be a typical
investigation when one did an internet search on the hart family. >> one of our investigators
showed me a picture of the Oregonian, with this picture of devante hart hugging a police
sergeant. Dan: investigators soon realized the Harts had been in trouble or scrutinized by child
protective services in Minnesota, Oregon and Washington, but separating the family's true
nature from the public perception of a loving home was difficult. >> due to this famous photo
that went viral out of the Oregonian, they were well known. we had to do a lot of research and
effort into what we call betting our witnesses. to make sure they truly knew the harts. both the
good and the bad. been questioning those witnesses, it was very apparent that they did not
note the harts on a personal level. Dan: the motive is still a mystery, but while the women were
driving, Sarah Hart was googling methods to commit suicide, the case is now in the -- the jurors
ruled that the parents died as a suicide, but the children died as a result of another. their
deaths were not an action -- accident. we have been following the Hart family case from the
beginning. you can find more from the inquest, along with past stories about the investigation
on koin.com
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 4 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_34

jurors have returned to their verdict in the case of the southwest Washington couple who
plunged their s.u.v. off California cliff last year their 6 adopted children inside the finding is at
the hands of another other than by axel jurors say all 6 children murdered and the two moms
29

committed suicide k tells a new report jurors heard about the multiple abuse allegations against
the moms California highway patrol investigator takes place read from harrowing reports
Abigail and bruising all time I heard stern from sternum to just above her belly button Jennifer
farrar Hart face years of abuse and neglect accusations in Minnesota Oregon and Washington
about their adopted children played says organs child protective services did an extensive
review into allegations that stemmed from when the family lived in Minnesota bruising on her
back a to upper buttocks area he said the couple complied with requirements to have a doctor
regularly examined the kids and get counseling he moved to Washington from Oregon in 20
said GMC Yukon plunged over a cliff in march 28
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_35

suicide is the leading cause of death in County jails across the Pacific northwest that's according
to an investigation by Oregon public broadcasting KOPB and the Northwest News network since
20 away at least 122 people have died by suicide after being taken to County jails across
Oregon and Washington organ House majority leader Jennifer Williamson says that the
investigation by the media shows something's wrong but we know that half of the folks dying
by suicide something's wrong. I mean, it shows me that we have people who are very sick and
then Kelley L in our facilities we don't know how to deal with them in because we don't have to
deal with them they're dying teen and that's unacceptable them jails have taken steps that
crisis intervention training for staff to address suicide but others say the deaths are impossible
to fully prevent
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 4 • 8:08 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_36

Also, tonight, a south Albany high school and a Lady Gaga connection. her non-profit born this
way foundation cosponsored first of its kind mental health training for high school students. >>
deb: it's part of a pilot program at eight sites throughout the country. KATU’s Joe Douglass
shows us what the students learned. >> joe: the centers for disease control and prevention says
one of every five children nationwide is at a seriously debilitating mental disorder, with half of
all chronic mental illness beginning by age 14. Oregon health authority says depression and
suicide among young people are on the rise, and part of a national trend. to help deal with the
problem, Lady Gaga's Born this Way Foundation and the National Council for Behavioral Health
cosponsored mental health first aid training sessions for students at eight sites nationwide.
trainers say the pilot program marks the first-time students have received trainings that usually
only given to adults. locally, nearly 400 south Albany high school sophomores went through the
training at the agape family fellowship church. >> we're supposed to look for the signs, we're
supposed to ask them, are you suicidal, are you sad, what's going on? we're supposed to listen
up to them, and we're supposed to talk to them and then get them to some sort of professional
help. >> we chose to do the sophomores, the 10th graders, because they'll keep it with them
for a couple more years, the information, and hopefully continue this going forward. >> joe: the
30

sessions started last month and wrapped up Thursday. students and counselors say social
media is making life especially stressful for kids, creating a situation where they can be bullied
constantly. joe Douglass, KATU news.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 8:30 PM

B_Apr_Wash_21

A jury in California has come to a unanimous verdict after a two-day inquest into the deaths of
8 family members from southwest Washington they ruled the death of Jennifer and Sarah Hart
were suicide and all 6 children died at the hands of another person. The Harts drove their car
off a postal clerk for northern California and Oregon public broadcasting Molly Solomon
reports. Today's proceedings deal today firsthand witness accounts for the night Jennifer Hart
pulled into a turnout at one creek and Mendocino coastline an older couple was also bear
campaign the witness from homer Alaska said he recalled hearing a car pulled in at 11 p.m. on
the night of march 24th that matches the hearts car and GMC Yukon SUV he was later broken
by the sound of an engine revving and what he described as a vehicle bottoming out the
witness says he went to look outside but it was too dark to see anything at the bottom of the
cliff and there were no lights on but he says he did here's something what he thinks may have
been a person calling for help at the time he assumed it was just a sea lion days later the couple
heard the news of the crash and immediately called authorities in Willits California and I’m Ali
Soliman reporting the hard lived in woodland Washington in the crash happened just days after
state officials visited the family home to investigate reports of child abuse.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 4 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_37

Dan: just moments ago, a jury issued their verdict on how a local family of 8 died. the Hart's
SUV plunged off a California cliff a little over a year ago. a jury believes both parents died by
suicide and killed all 6 of their children. today was day 2 of the Mendocino county coroner’s
inquest. the California highway patrol investigator revealed Jennifer Hart, who was driving, had
the equivalent of five drinks in her system. >> it's investigators' belief she was drinking in order
to build up her courage to do this horrible deed. Dan: but friends said she rarely drank. the
autopsy revealed Sarah Hart had the equivalent of 42 doses of a store brand Benadryl in her
system. her phone revealed she was doing Google searches on suicide in the hours before their
deaths. >> can 500 milligrams of Benadryl kill a 120-pound woman? what kind of over the
counter medications can you take to overdose? how can I easily overdose on over the counter
medications? is death from drowning relatively painless? Dan: the autopsies revealed at least
three of the kids had high levels of Benadryl in their systems. one of the six kids, Devonte, is still
missing, but was believed to be in the vehicle at the time of the crash. We've been following
this story since the news first broke last march. you can find a look back at all our reporting and
the latest updates on koin.com
KOPB-FM (Radio)

B_Apr_Oreg_38

31

Apr 4 • 9:02 PM
the coroner’s inquest into the fatal car crash of Washington family has come to a conclusion the
jury found the 6 adopted children marcus Jeremiah Abigail the von say fear and Hannah Hart
were killed by their adoptive parents the unanimous verdict found Jenn and Sarah Hart died by
suicide and children died quote at the hands of another after two days of testimony the jury
took less than an hour to make their decision.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 4 • 9:02 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_39

more than 30 media organizations in Oregon challenging the long-standing practice of not
reporting on suicide out of fear, these conversations will inspire others to also take their own
lives. >> tv stations and newspapers are teaming up in an unprecedented collaboration to
report on mental health effect on the community, and efforts to prevent tragedy. breaking the
silence project, comes as the national suicide rate hits a 50-year high.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 4 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_40

A jury has just ruled that Sarah and Jennifer Hart died of suicide. when they drove their family's
SUV off a cliff in California about a year ago. and they intentionally killed their six children
inside. before the case went to the jury... they heard about the science of the investigation.
officer Timothy roloff says when they looked at the in-car system -- they didn't find any
mechanical defects. he says in the seconds leading up to the crash... the SUV went from zero to
20... before it went off the cliff. he basically described it as someone putting the pedal to the
metal. 9:35:50 to summarize the data, you have 2 secs of brake on, then you have 3 seconds of
vehicle accelerating up to 100% throttle // how careful do you drive when you're at a cliff edge,
how carefully do drive when you have your whole family in the car, how often do you apply
100% throttle? he also says no one was wearing their seatbelt. investigators say Sarah Hart
spent hours on her phone before the deaths, looking at overdose options... and whether it was
relatively painless to die by drowning. they say the couple decided that if they couldn't have
their kids... nobody would have them. they were being investigated for neglecting their kids,
who were all adopted.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 4 • 9:29 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_41

The 6 adopted children were murdered during their two moms’ suicide. That's the finding from
the jury today in the case of the southwest Washington family whose s.u.v. plunged off a cliff
last year, KXL has been following this story for the past two days she says today investigators
talked about the SUV’s so-called black box at Mendocino County. Jurors heard California
highway patrol investigator Timothy roll off zeroing in on the so-called black box from the 2003
Yukon it shows in the seconds before the wreck it rapidly sped up 1000 to 2003 1000 internet
32

Tyner going from idling with the bed the breaks then on out here in rome fell 21% error
accelerate he says that's consistent with the driver intentionally driving over the cliff and not
trying to stop and that you need is one to watch report
KATU-POR (ABC)
US Apr 4 • 9:33 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_42

Genevieve: this doctor in bend says the risk of mental health complications post-concussion is
higher for those with a more complex medical history. including kids with add, learning
disabilities, depression, and anxiety. >> we really want to make sure those conditions are really
tracked post-injury, because a concussion can exacerbate those kinds of symptoms. >>
Genevieve: in Portland, I talked with dr. Jim chestnut. >> there seems to be an increased
relation between concussions and the risk of suicide. >> Genevieve: he added, concussions get
more concerning when a child doesn't recover within two to three weeks. >> if people don't
recover on that time frame, we start seeing the mental health issues becoming very
predominant in terms of the recovery pattern. >> Genevieve: there are rules in place across the
country to try and help keep concussed kids safe. like max's law in Oregon, which requires
athletes get a medical clearance before returning to sport after a concussion. back in bend -- >>
this is his signature. >> Genevieve: the Holmes’s are hoping hunter's legacy is as permanent as
their tattoos. they raised money last year to fund this your life matters video. you can see the
parallels. this year, the money they raise will go towards more teen suicide awareness and
scholarships for kids known to be gliend maybe just gives them a also extra incentive to be
kinder, nicer, more empathetic and a chance to have more money for school. >> Genevieve:
sounds like a scholarship hunter would have won. >> right. unique kindness scholarship Travis
was talking about. it will be in Prineville on May 18th. the 18th actually would have been
hunter's 18th birthday. so, they'll celebrate by doing something he loved. >> Steve: it's so
important we get these stories out there. we talked about this so many times. you never know
what's leading a child to suicide. and every possibility needs to be put on the air, so people at
least know what to look for. >> Genevieve: and the Holmes’s said they just wished they had
asked him more questions. if you want to play in the tournament, we've got the link at
katu.com. >> Steve: thank you for that. >>> he's 8. it's not okay. unacceptable. >> deb: her son
was bullied to the brink. the mom of an elementary school student opens up about what almost
ended her son's life. we've been focusing on youth mental health as part of our station project,
"kind is better" for months. but we haven't talked about how pervasive and potentially deadly
bullying can be. coming up in an unprecedented statewide media event, we join together with
news organizations from up and down Oregon to talk about the state's suicide crisis. you can
see the collaborative report you won't want to miss, coming up Monday April 8th at 6:30.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 4 • 10:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_43

A jury reached a unanimous verdict after an inquest into the 2018 deaths of a southwest
Washington family Jennifer and Sarah Hart died by suicide there's 6 adopted children died
33

quote at the hands of another Molly Solomon reports Thursday's verdict means that the death
certificates for market is Abigail, Hannah, Jeremiah, Sierra, and Vontae Hart will all be homicide
14 jurors from Mendocino County quickly reached a decision they deliberated for just under an
hour after hearing two days of testimony investigation included law enforcement from multiple
agencies that cross state lines jurors heard new evidence that detailed what led Jennifer heart
to intentionally drive her family of the coastal enclave in northern California he testimony
centered on Google searches collected from Sera heart cellphone vehicle black box in the
family's GPS device Mendocino County Sheriff Tom Allman accepted the ruling and will close
the case and called on federal lawmakers to consider a national registry for child abuse adding
that the tragedy of 6 children murdered should never be forgotten.
KLSR (FOX)
Apr 4 • 10:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_44

a jury has returned with its decision in the heart family crashed case. their goal, to figure out
how to classify the march 2018 deaths of Jenn and Sarah Hart and their six adopted children
after the vehicle plunged off a coastal clip in northern California. good evening. thank you for
joining us for Oregon the snooze at seven. I am dane horning are. the jury deliberated for less
than an hour today on the mode and manner of death after a second day of the hart family
inquest. that jury concluded that each of the children died at the hands of another. meeting,
this was not an accident. as for Jennifer and Sarah hart, they determined their death as suicide.
Kelly azar has more. >> reporter: detectives close to the hart family case say just hours after
child protective services visited the woodland home, without making contact with the hearts,
the hearts got into their SUV and left in a hurry. the investigation revealed that the women did
not pack so much as a toothbrush for themselves or their six kids. however, law enforcement
was able to retrace their steps, thanks to cell phones and a GPS recovered from the ocean. they
say during their drive to California; the Harts made several stops and that 54-hour time span. to
buy little food, but also toothbrushes. for all eight members of the family. that fact is what has
law enforcement believing Sarah and Jennifer Hart did not have a specific plan in place.
however, the biggest news of the day revealed what took place a few hours after they left their
home. Sarah, in the front passenger seat at the time of the crash, had some disturbing
searches. >>> and those google searches, Sarah began asking google questions, such as, ken
500 milligrams of Benadryl kill 120-pound woman. what over-the-counter medications can you
take to overdose? how can I easily overdose on over-the-counter medications? is death by
drowning relatively painless? how long does it take to die from hypothermia and water while
drowning in a car? what will happen when overdosing with Benadryl? one of the last searches
that she did on her phone was while they were traveling to Oregon, and it was a search that she
entered in, requesting google to identify no kill shelters for dogs. >> reporter: police say they
believe it was only once the family got to Mendocino county, that the women made the
decision. they believed Jennifer drank in order to get courage, and Sarah had a toxic level of
Benadryl in her system at the time.
KAYU (FOX)

B_Apr_Wash_22

34

Apr 5 • 11:51 AM
this morning a jury is ruling that the cliff crash, involving a Washington state couple and their six
adopted children has been ruled as a murder-suicide. the jury in Mendocino county
unanimously ruled that the crash was intentional after deliberating for only an hour. authorities
say the woodland, Washington family's s-u-v went from standing still to gas pedal floored, as
Jennifer Hart sat behind the wheel legally drunk.at first, investigators thought it was an accident
until they got the data from the SUV’s black box. officer timothy roloff/California highway
patrol: "we have the vehicle going from 34% throttle to 100% throttle and there's no
subsequent application of the brake.//during that time, they're going from idling, the brake has
been on then the throttle, and the throttle is going to 100%, you're accelerating to 20 miles per
hour as you head towards that cliff face. our analysis of that data was that this was consistent
with this being an intentional act." investigators soon realized the harts had been in trouble or
scrutinized by child protective services in Minnesota, Oregon and Washington.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 11:47 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_45

over the past two days the jury 14 people have heard testimony to figure out why a Woodland
Washington family of 8 drove off a cliff in California last year now we have an answer for the
jury determined that Jenifer and Sarah Hart intentionally killed themselves and their 6 adopted
children the case has been ruled a murder-suicide the PD's Molly Sullivan has been in northern
California over the last couple of days covering the corners inquest into the case and she joins
me now Molly good morning good morning half who were some people who spoke to the jury
what they talk about so over the past two days the jury heard from 9 witnesses and those
included Sheriff deputies from Washington and California search and rescue commanders
apologist and the lead investigator on this case cheeks slates laid out an incredibly
comprehensive investigation took them all the way to homer Alaska AP an interview with the
only witness who saw the hard drive off a cliff and he said they work with 10 different agencies
across the country 11 Department just within the California highway patrol at some of those
were high tech crime labs used new techniques to analyze some of the D Chill data that they
collected and this case this tragic case left Let's say their names Marcus, Jeremiah, Abigail,
Ontake, Sierra, and Hannah Hart dead did we learn anything new from this inquest so CHP
officer Jake slates like to mention the lead investigator on this case he gave jurors the most
complete picture of the heart family's final days leading up to the crash and he was able to
salvage the car's GPS data device and a cell phone pings to show the exact locations and times
from when hearts left their homes to when they crashed off the cliff during the trip down to the
Mendocino most we found out that they bought large doses of Benadryl and administered and
it basically drugging the children Sera also took an amount investigators say would have left her
extremely intoxicated about 42 doses herself and one of the more chilling pieces of evidence
were searches on Google that Syria had made in the hours after leaving their home on her
cellphone Here's officer slates reading those serve again asking Google questions such as
canned 500 milligrams of Benadryl killed 120-pound woman what over-the-counter
35

medications can take to overdose how might easily overdose on over-the-counter medications
his death by drowning relatively painless how long does it take to die from hypothermia and
water while drowning in a car so we know now that the hearts were a lot more intentional and
this plan Yeah and since this case began many people have wanted to know why his wife hearts
did this do we have any better sense of why he did so I think the narrative the floor this was
you know the idea that maybe all of this was Jennifer who was apparent behind the wheel of
the car went off the cliff but I think you know over the last couple days we learned that this was
a decision that cereal engine made together I’m a timeline shows Jang calling Sarah her
cellphone and talking on the phone almost immediately after a visit from Washington state
child welfare services is a defined today one of the children had complained to a neighbor they
were withholding meals punishment Gen. Mansour also have a history of child abuse and
neglect allegations that followed them for one of the two Minnesota and more recently across
the River in Oregon and just hours after that CPS visit the hearts got in the car drove away in a
hurry in began their trips to California the lead investigator says he doesn't believe that they
left with a plan he thinks that they were on the ground get from CPS and at some
point they made a decision if they can have their kids then nobody was going to have the kids
so the jury decided that these women killed their children is that yet or is there anything else
that could still happen in this legal process so this whole inquest has always been more about
transparency and getting the findings to the public I think especially since the case captured
national and even international attention the sheriff's office felt this was the best Avenue to
deliver all of their key findings in as public way is big said Mendocino County Sheriff Tom
Hallman said he accepted the murder-suicide ruling from the jurors but he also wanted
lawmakers to take note of the federal lack of oversight for child abuse in this country and he
said that systemic failures in the adoption system possibly led to this and needs to be a national
registry that tracks child abuse so while we've gotten closure on this case he says there's a lot
of work to be done to prevent another thank you for your work on this.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 5 • 11:35 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_46

after two days of gut wrenching testimony a jury has said Jenifer and Sarah Hart killed there's 6
adopted children last year by intentionally driving the family's SUV off the California coast a
cleft the bodies of 5 children have been found 15 year-old the on tape hard body was never
found but still belonged to Jamie Hart the finding is at the hands of another other than by axel
investigators say Sarah and Jennifer Hart surged to suicide drowning Benadryl doses is an
overdose method throughout the drive to California the jury ruled that ball for their deaths
were suicide
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 9:20 AM

B_Apr_Wash_23

36

it's hard to believe that it's been 25 years to the day the Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain took his
own life with the right now his cool and biographer Charles Krause who wrote heavier than
heaven you which one best kept award for outstanding biography in 2002 Charles I talked to
this morning thanks very much why is it that people are still so fascinated with Kurt Cobain the
after 25 years after his death we saw was a major figure in music but I think in Seattle he was
really are God I mean for everyone in Seattle you know when Obama started to rise and fall
1991 when Nate Hatch smells like teen spirit come out the we felt like America have won the
world series that it was music that people see how I own it I love it because it was the first time
Mark city got attention on an international scale have you learned anything new about him in
the ensuing years anything remarkable fascinate you about him will happen outdated my
biography heavier things happen which just came out this month with a couple new chapters I
mean most of occurred I knew when I first wrote a book that there are many fascinating
aspects to his personality that people aren't aware of on no he was also very talented visual
artist and he considered quitting music and going into up Hey need a he didn't actually do but
he has quite an amazing collection of our work could be created over the years there was so
much about them that is fascinating so I can keep it it begins you know as a musician but the
end up being a figure of major coal troll important was a troubled guy Yes there's absolutely no
doubt about that I mean her struggle from drug addiction he spoke from depression there have
been suicide in his family he also had a chronic pain you know those things added together
bomb created a real mess especially when you mix and the tribes that he struggled with the last
couple years of his life fact part of the story we're looking back 25 years later is that the
establishment historians Seattle they kept repeating repeated again make them are opiate
problem and of course for disaster and suicide rates now learn up almost twice the highest
when Kurt died 1994 the music industry certainly has changed in the ensuing 25 years a record
sales are down online music has taken over I wonder if Kurt Cobain's Nirvana could have broken
through today in such a different environment probably not I was also very kind of character
and wish you the posted the video on Twitter or Facebook and people would immediately
criticized if he would have had a chance to develop them really become an artist I think they
really were one of the last of the kind I room once it occurred was the last American rock stars
and in some ways I believe because the combination of talent and in just how important music
was too cold sure that time had not been deluded you just don't buy the and appeared or by
the Internet every everything everyone in Seattle had a copy of never mind he went to
someone's House absolutely somebody is going to have that it was central to the way that I
think we approach music in the city 25 finished up Charles River grateful for your time this
morning thanks for shedding more light on the life of Kurt Cobain Charles cross you probably
remember many years was the editor of the rocket magazine here in Seattle and he's the
author of the Kobane biography heavier them have been Charles cross on the 25th anniversary
of the death of Kurt Cobain.
News Radio KEX
Apr 5 • 9:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_47

a 17 hour standoff in Stockbridge Georgia ends in tragedy it was his take those reports 3 people
are dead and police say they never fired a shot more than a 100 police held their fire they did
37

away with an armored vehicle killing the Georgia state patrol swat officer the suspect opened
fire on the armor bob that in the end police captain Joyce smith says the suspect killed himself
but not before killing a woman 8 months pregnant and her 16 year-old son the woman's body
found in a garage a teenager and a male suspect there's been seeing better desert this says it
appears to have started as a domestic dispute
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 7:30 AM

B_Apr_Wash_24

it took less than an hour for jurors to decide the Clark County family that drove off a cliff in
northern California died in murder-suicide during testimony jurors learned just hours after child
protective services visited their home Jenifer and Sarah Hart there's 6 adopted children to offer
California investigators say after they left Sarah made disturbing Google searches on the phone
how long does it take to die from hypothermia and water while drowning and how what will
happen over dosing with manager Sarah and each of the children were found with toxic levels
of Benadryl other systems police leave Jennifer got drunk before intentionally drive her family
off the cliff.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 5 • 8:30 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_48

A collision killed 6 adopted children last year by intentionally driving the family's s SUV off
California coastal cliff the bodies of the 5 of the children have been found that 15 year-old
yvonne to Hart’s body was never found the still the month saying aren't defining years at the
hands of another other than by axel investigators say that Sarah and Jennifer researched
suicide drowning and ben drug dosages and overdose meth heads throughout the drive to
California and the jury ruled both of their deaths were suicide you can hear or read more about
this right now
KDRV (ABC)
Apr 5 • 2:20 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_49

a topic that newsrooms often don't report on ... suicide. recently multiple papers and t-v
stations in Oregon have challenged that practice -- saying it's important to raise awareness. this
is video from the out of the darkness walk in Eugene. known as "breaking the silence," the
project comes as the national suicide rate hits a 50-year high. and the problem is worse in
Oregon, where the suicide rate is 40-percent higher than the national average. if you or
someone you know is struggling with depression or suicidal thoughts there is help available. call
the national suicide prevention lifeline at any time. that number is on your screen and is 1-800273-8255
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 5 • 2:37 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_50

38

now an update on the Hart family investigation. that’s the family of eight who died after their
SUV went off a cliff in California. a jury has ruled that Sarah and Jennifer hart died of suicide,
intentionally killing their six children inside. investigators say Sarah hart spent hours on her
phone before the crash looking at overdose options... and whether it was relatively painless to
die by drowning. Jennifer and Sarah Hart were being investigated for neglecting their children
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 5 • 3:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_51

a local non-profit that works to prevent suicide and substance abuse received a big donation.
Anne naito-campbell and her family donated one million dollars for lines for life, she's a board
member and talked to fox 12 about importance this morning. >> when I first came on the
board, it was about 20,000 calls were serviced. ten years later, we're over 110,000. so, you can
see exponentially how this need has grown. we need everybody's help. Pete: lines for life
operates a crisis line 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in addition to the Oregon youth line. if you
or someone you know needs help, call the number on your screen. 800-273-8255. you can also
text if that's a more comfortable way for you to reach out. if you'd like to help with their
mission, you can find their website on our website, kptv.com
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 3:15 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_52

We want to move on to another story where suicide is front and center and so I want to pause
just give the number for the National suicide Prevention lifeline national network of local crisis
centers they provide free and confidential emotional support to people and suicidal crisis
emotional distress. They do this 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and that number is 802.3 8 to 5 5
to 7 300 to 7.8 to 5 5 and you can text home to 7 4 won 7.1 it's been almost exactly a year since
Washington couple and their 6 adopted children died after their car went off the side of a cliff
along highway one in California now an inquest has definitively conclude that Jennifer and
Sarah Hart deliberately took their own lives and the lives of their children Marcus Jeremiah
Abigail upon take fear and Hannah and move from state to state running from child welfare
authorities investigator jakes place the California highway patrol said that it was clear at some
point the couple decided that if they couldn't have their children then no one would.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 5 • 3:23 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_53

John thought jumped on the every lgbtq couple needs to lose their foster parenting or adoptive
parents and rights in this situation involving a hard couple this couple took their 6 children who
have been abused by the couple withholding food and as reported child care officials to
California drug them and murdered them by committing suicide and driving off a cliff if and
every time it happens a criminal and should want more people I say criminal because that's
what they are the libor roles come out of the woodwork screaming demand that all guns be
abandoned all gun owners be punished or lose their rights to state immediately I do not feel or
39

hear to the knee jerk reaction that an lgbtq couple should be judged by the actions of these two
murders it is a tragedy that could have been prevented that prevention is not taking away
people's rights we're condemning those who have not committed a crime 6 little kids will never
grow up and learn to ride bikes skin their knees inging acquired join a club for fail at something I
learned succeeded something prosper it breaks my heart to see 6 lives ended for the
selfishness of to no one except the two who murdered them should be held accountable for it
perhaps this could be an example of you don't condemn the many for the actions of a few I
could agree with him more and made it clear in a follow-up email he sent to me he's not saying
it lgbtq couples should be denied adoption what he's saying is when to lgbtq women murdered
6 children you don't then go out and try to punish everyone who fits their characterization the
fact is that is exactly what liberals tried to do with those of us on the right and those of us who
believe in the right to keep and bear arms.

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 3:50 PM

B_Apr_Wash_25

… one of the interesting things we found in the data was that one in 5 people who died in jails
in pretrial detention so before they were convicted of any crime there on misdemeanor charges
so I think we you know when we're talking about these job that's often times the reason why e
note jails are devoid of resources because their overcrowded and the state of Washington as an
analysis showing that 47 100 people could grieve be released on any day work posed no threat
to the community if they could be diverted for pretrial services I think her promise that we
don't have those resources in our communities now and the jail has often times are only resort
the one thing that struck me as a high proportion of these deaths that were that were
attributable to free trial detainees these are people there in the dirt you know doing sends time
now they're just waiting for trial and the other thing is related to that it is that many of these
are within the first few days it's yeah what does that say well it means he's shown over and
over again that the first week of jail for anyone who is really most deadly and that's for a
number of reasons I mean I oftentimes people who end up in jail on non-violent low-level
charges are in some sort of crisis and they may be detoxing from heroin not getting medical
treatment they need they may be off you know psychiatric man there's all sorts of things could
happen all at once and jails are equipped to handle it also is the uncertainty of bean in jail and
when you are not and given the support you need sometimes add jails place people into single
cells when they're in crisis but research has shown that single cells actually carry the highest
risk for suicide so the risk of being placed in a single cell actually 9 times the risk of being placed
in a group setting all that that's what one of the things I thought was so important in the
reporting there is if we know that weaker to rue are than are this scary weeks from for this first
suicide and some other things and we know that these folks are at risk why would you put him
in single cells it seems it seems like we have this information now folks let's get our act together
here and make sure that as we know folks as you said are coming down from drugs that makes
them so much thank you so much want to just give up everything and that's a terrible time but
now we know some of these things it seems that the next steps are to focus on that time period
40

use the knowledge to lower this were the rate of suicide is horrifying yeah I agree to anything
there Johnny I think the other important thing is to make sure that people in jails are equipped
and trained to recognize some of the crises the people are experiencing.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 4:21 PM

B_Apr_Wash_26

25 years ago today Kurt Cobain took his life just 27 years old only thing they have is till today
about one of those I remember exactly where I was standing behind a little assignment news
editor station King 10 90 radio ad does right but this real to real big machine we had their and
it's about 7 of 10 o'clock in the morning when the word came down that Kurt Cobain was Yeah
it is just one of those moments I think the of the newest came out The day after he killed
himself when he killed himself 25 years ago today right now we found out with Mark but that
was just one of those moments and yet the music was so depressed lot of people Yes and it was
reflected in his suicide note yield hit to his Na and stomach or reef you raise kids but so many of
those artists made in 5th grade depression and mental illness that they deal with so much of
what makes the music what it is and makes them so you know that talent is also you know is
they're demons there Paul tell me about it.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 5 • 5:25 PM

B_Apr_Wash_27

Hey welcome back to the waters large to show more bold today west trial well there are these
things for both public and that's when I like kids die start off the day talking about for our family
now you know we've talked about them since what happened in march of last year where 6
children were murdered they were murdered by two women who had taken on the
responsibility of caring
for those children and they were taking a lot of money from state agencies in other parts of the
country and my impression after all the investigative reporting it was done after the death of
those children was that every time these two women who agreed to be their parents ran into
trouble with one states social service agencies they simply move to another state and they
would move and move an move they were still getting tracks for all those kids while the two
women did have a job those two women decided to commit suicide and all be blocked if they
wanted to take their own lives I guess that's their decision I don't agree with suicide I don't
think it's more role I don't think it's right I also think that there's there are few problems in life
that said that have to be solved or the most desirable situation to solve them is is taking yearold life I just don't so I simply don't agree with that having said that they could have left the kids
at home they could have driven away from home if the two of them had decided to commit
suicide but honestly these two women were evil people they were people who took advantage
of these kids they had bad their kids did not have that they lied to the public about who they
were and what they represented they had represented themselves one way to the public and
they were in fact in private something completely different and not having a bed for every one
of your children if you've decided to take on 6 children that's an awesome responsibility but it's
41

a difficult responsibility if you decide to do then you decide you can handle it the your ego not
allow you to say I want to take my own life but why in the world would you take the 6 kids with
you I’ve heard some fear back from some of you who have experienced some viewer in
positions where you can't exactly talk publicly about what you do but he won john munro to me
I’ve been a critic in many cases but would not suggest they allowed children to die argue well
he also tells me something I’m not going to share a double check him but he says underlying
problem is lack of resources which identified the solution is to ban the so-called proctor model
which says all children need to be raised in a family environment and returned to a group home
setting for many of these kids may sound harsh but it would be less damaging than many other
families do like hearts have you seen any real serious indication from government and this is
the government state Oregon governor state Washington both of which did not spot the
problems of the hard family until after the children were already dead which by the way is too
late have you seen either one of those two governments come out and say we have done a
thoroughgoing review everything we failed to do all the mistakes that were made in this case all
the things that kept us from seeing what was going on and as a result we've made the following
changes to make sure this never happens again I don't see that yet in fact if you recall a couple
years ago we're talking about a similar case involving the death of a child and we're told that
time that the state of Oregon for example I don't know about the state of Washington is split
up into these regions where litter early you can be a bad parent in one region and that part of
the state children's services agency is aware of you but if you move to a different geographic
area within the same state that area does not know what you've been doing before they don't
have the full story and think about this stated Texas knew there was a problem with the hearts
the state of Minnesota knew there was a problem with the heart state of Oregon had seen
some indications of a problem state of Washington was only starting to react to the problem as
the hearts were loading up the s.u.v. to take their kids down the coast so the mom the two
moms could get loaded up on Benadryl and alcohol and drive the s.u.v. off the edge of a cliff its
60 or 70 miles an hour now if the states were sharing information and there shouldn't be away
it should be impossible for you to be you identified as somebody who neglect or abuse as
children in one state as was the case with hearts and you simply go to another state and I
stayed doesn't have a clue as to what the background is I think that every single person who
might have abused child neglected child or otherwise mistreated a child should know there is
no place I can go in America and they won't know exactly what's going on you know when it
comes to criminal justice if you get pulled over by the side of the road in in Portland ore Seattle
and there's a warrant out for you in in providence Rhode island or bar harbor Maine the police
in Seattle and the police in Portland know about it the same thing should be true for every
single child who's in the care and under that not so watchful eyes of the state children's
services agencies
News Radio KEX
Apr 5 • 5:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_54

all of us are listening even have known to many people who have been affected by suicide here
in the state of Oregon drug abuse which sometimes leads to the same joining us his wife called
me is the CEO of lines for life you know it's a never-ending battle with you why but you know
42

you hang in there in the trenches and every now and then the others news story the pops up
that that says you know what we were starting to make a dent in this thing today might be one
of them I think that's right martin though the sweet newsrooms across the state problem radio
broadcast to print and digital our spending we can't highlighting story is all about suicide as an
issue but also about suicide prevention and story of hope and healing and this all comes back to
the conversation we've been having with trolls around the state about the fact that they really
don't see much reporting for us and I you know more people thought about suicide in Oregon
men from opioid overdose of course you seal towards the paper read write and suicide Israeli
the papers so we're trying to change that for two reasons one because we want our terror on
this pick well again getting help and along his two sons Jonathan people feel like they can reach
out for help and to we'll have our real public policy conversation about what we ought to be
doing tension stigmas that that's a great word a bit but it affects so many people and I am I said
it's human nature that I guess we don't want to talk about it it's that taboo subject and this case
on the show we've tried to talk about it more could have met too many people who when you
meet them they're affected by a family suicide friends suicide or friend drug overdose award
winners purpose full or not you realized they want to talk about it it's amazing that's right you
know they 125 Oregonians done but to sideline Mr. marks that's almost 3 day I am we just
don't talk about it and as long as we don't talk about it people who are struggling will feel like
something wrong with them they shouldn't be asking for help right so we need to have a real
conversation about this we need to let people loaded her struggling there is hope there is help
and you can connect with resources you know your lunch why we get people 24 7 with
everyday year 100 to 7 3 talk we'll get it to us and the lowly be compassionate here are ready to
here are struggling and trying to go forward 100 to 7 3 tock the why is it that we have such and
such numbers suicide numbers in the state of the guys never looked at it earlier tried to figure
out why Oregon is 40% higher than the national average and it's a complex issue and you know
I think there are a variety of factors now in the wow just that contribute to higher suicide rates
are low we go all communities where people are more alone a disconnect here we go our
higher we are sure of that reality is no matter what we all saw on guns reality is and easier
availability of a gun is a realist with somebody who is about what I am thinking about suicide
bomb and then we just how the rugged individualism which is a core hard and frankly a terrific
art market a concern out here well sir for what it means for people less likely to reach our
hearts our scientific cancer but it's anecdotal enter from what we know off you are our
newsroom was loath to cover these is because it they just don't know how in other words zero
how happy is sensitively report a story like this what do you advise newsrooms I think that's
right I think newsrooms have been reluctant to talk about those were two reasons one because
they want to be the respect or family about appropriate and two because they are worried
about contagion what some people call a copycat the worried according to a prompt others too
well what we know from beta alpha hard research in if you report on suicide irresponsibly to do
it in a sensational away the new academy prompt others to think about suicide but this the
good news is they can report on suicide respond someone if you talk about suicide in the
conduct of hope and healing and connection the resources of you can actually reduce suicide
rates would call pop genoa fact mean after geno character in Mozart’s include and our it's a real
fine to pick we allergy if you report to talk about who is in the right way you can talk about the
delay talk connects your resources connecting the pope and then you will be able to bring any
43

sort of let's so for example whenever I talk about whose side you're on quick to point out that
while we have a real challenge the reality is that for every person who dies a suicide there are
280 people who think about it seriously but find late for work that's 280 stories of hope and
healing for every tragic story that we hear about
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 5 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_55

Oregon has one of the highest suicide rates in the country and one non-profit has been
stretching its resources to fight the crises not organization got some help today take excels
mike turner was their planes for life was handed a million dollars by the bill made a family from
the sale of its properties blinds for life to more than double the amount of calls last year 4
people in crisis long time member and nato camel couldn't think of a better recipient could I
mean there is hundreds of charities and again I mean really this is this is the most closest thing
to my heart because I know how difficult it is for a family member to have a person in a mental
crisis the doak campbell said she chose the organization in part because she has watched her
daughter's struggle with mental health issues after reporting a sexual assault.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 5 • 7:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_56

the inquest that finished yesterday revealed more details about how Jennifer and Sarah hart
had planned the deaths, and how it could perhaps have been prevented. Jennifer: let's switch
to Lisa balick who is looking more into this. Lisa: investigators say Jennifer Hart deliberately
stepped on the gas while her blood alcohol was over the legal limit, and her wife had more than
40 doses in her system of generic Benadryl, which would cause sleepiness. Investigators they
also found cell phone records that indicated Sarah Hart had searched suicide, death by Benadryl
and drowning while the family drove from woodland to California. they took off just a few
hours after a caseworker came by to investigate allegations of child abuse. they did not answer
the door. the hart women had been investigated for possible child abuse of their foster children
while living in different states. the sheriff investigating the family's deaths says there is
something that might help in the future. >> we don't have a national data base for child abuse
allegations, and the fact that there were 5 states involved, Texas, Minnesota, Oregon,
Washington, California certainly should be an enlightening moment for our national legislatures
to look at the possibility of enacting some type of national database. Lisa: I contacted the
offices of Oregon senators Merkley and Wyden along with Washington’s patty Murray to see if
they are going to look into this. senator Wyden’s office responded, saying he is pursuing
legislation that both provides law enforcement with real-time tools they need for national
oversight and local response to abuse allegations. as always, he will also guard the privacy of
families. the California sheriff did credit Oregon’s child protective services for uncovering abuse
in Minnesota, but when they started asking questions, the harts moved from Oregon to
Washington.

44

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 7:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_28

let's go back in time for a moment April 5th 1994 and npr's all things considered Kurt Cobain
the lead singer with the rock group nirvana was found dead today at his Seattle home it's been
25 years since Kurt Cobain died by suicide but his influence on popular music and his legacy in
Seattle keeps going strong 5 years ago katie what w spoke with Kobe and biographer Charles
cross in some ways he was also an idea a rock-star for Seattle because in Seattle no one would
bother occurred I just saw her walk down the street that we were gone nobody what he was
famous nobody would come up to him and say hey kirk remain that's not Seattle approach in
l.a. he would have been mobbed by paparazzi everywhere he went he had the capacity to have
an anonymity here that was really about his artistry and not about his celebrity cross also told
us that Kurt Cobain and his music serve as a generational milestone he's like jd saunter
everybody reads catcher in the rye I it's every has to deal with nirvana you I everybody is a fan
but you have to understand what that artistry was about to really understand the history of pop
music that's Charles cross author of the Kurt Cobain biography be heavier than heaven Cobain
died in Seattle twenty-five years ago today.
KREM (CBS)
Apr 5 • 7:12 PM

B_Apr_Wash_29

25 years ago today, Seattle’s grunge music scene lost one of its founding fathers. Kurt Cobain
died by suicide at his Seattle home on April 5th, 19-94. the nirvana front man was only 27.
loved ones say Cobain lived with depression and was never comfortable with the level of
stardom he had attained. nirvana's second album "Nevermind" propelled the band to fame. it
took the number one spot on the u-s billboard two- hundred chart in 19-92.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 5 • 7:14 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_57

Deb: one of the most iconic and influential musicians to come out of the northwest died 25
years ago today. the body of nirvana front man Kurt Cobain was found on April 5th, 1994, in his
Seattle apartment of an apparent suicide. nirvana ushered in a new era of rock and roll called
grunge, cementing their place in music history. Cobain was born in 1967 and he joined another
Seattle legend, jimmy Hendrix and others in the so-called 27 club, a group of musicians who all
died at 27. experts say for every person who completes suicide, there are 280 others who
seriously this about it but instead decide to live. if you need someone to talk to, call the
national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. they can help you get in touch with experts locally.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 5 • 7:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_58

For _thirty_ _three_ two days of testimony about the deaths of a southwest Washington family
of 8 California jurors ruled the deaths of Jennifer and Sarah hart and there's 6 adopted children
45

murder-suicide he excels net new rule has been watching this case very closely at what are your
thoughts on this verdict yeah after listening to the detectives the highway patrol officers and a
doctor who did the autopsy they really think they had no other choice those jurors had to
decide that the these deaths were not accidental you know we heard about Yukon’s black
boxes the final seconds didn't report the brakes being used at all instead reporter Jennifer
speeding or right towards a cliff they down at the cirrus spent hours online searching for
Benadryl over dosing whether drowning was a painless way to die there are also some gurman
recordings were very powerful showing where the family stopped to pick up that tried to make
the kids sleep and then the toxicology report that was also pretty powerful because it should
it's their head at least 42 doses of the drug in her system and the kids had very extremely high
doses so they would be all unconscious most likely while and a net worth there are a lot of signs
this family was in trouble in the first place at the human side of this tragedy it's just awful we
heard from Clark county detective and that how neighbors again and again they were reporting
kids running to them for help begging for food saying the parents were hurting them there
were bruises on their bodies and this pattern stretch back to when they lived in Minnesota then
they moved to Oregon and later Washington the child protective services those states
investigated and again and again one mom was convicted of assault but all they really did send
them to counseling you know so the school's neighbors witnesses law enforcement child
protective services so many people tried to do something to help this family and sadly they
were not able to and certainly horrifying case Annette hopefully something will come out of it
prevent something like this in the future.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 7:49 PM

B_Apr_Wash_30

and this is the 25th anniversary of the death of Kurt Cobain story member the crowds across
the street cry eyeing fans during Courtney Love and sold them over the loudspeakers at their
Seattle Center why you think the Nirvana's music lives on the music just spoke to some people
in a way that we've never seen something so raw and personal and dark really it number one in
the bottom of the first banded ever hit number one that was so dark song about rape and
English and darkness and depression and that touched the Lot of people who were going
through the very same thing they've they talked themselves so while I’m not alone this guy is a
bed rock star is also going through the same things I am many people in the music world really
consider that unplugged video one of the best of all time Yeah absolutely I know for myself
whatever amount my top 5 desert island album about is definitely in that list if not number one
to see them strip down and unplug and doing covers doing so many covers the putting their
own spin on it showed how amazing thing this group they came together how great they were
together how they can do where we think it also makes me very sad defeated that they could
do something that was so great and outside from anything else you've ever seen before and
you know that you were never going to get anything else again from this was 25 years ago he
was 27 years old was heroin in his body when he ended his life and think how much terror
when there is on the streets of Seattle right now and how many suicides there are some things
just got worse when it comes to things like drugs that as we saw with Kurt Cobain the matter
how much money you have the amount of famous you are how powerful you are both take you
46

down the matter what where you are in life he be the richest guy everybody have problems
everybody has demons and drugs will find a way to enjoy it as a person whose father had that
heroin problem and ended his life.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 5 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_59

Steve: the system failed the hart children. that's the message from the Mendocino county
sheriff's office following the coroner's inquest. as we reported yesterday, a jury of 14 decided
all the hart children died at the hands of another, and the two women died by suicide. >> deb:
tonight, the sheriff says he hopes this case is a wake-up call for lawmakers. katu's Kellee azar is
live in news control. so, what does he say we need? >> Kellee: he says we need a national
database. as it stands right now, they say it is very difficult to get some of the most basic
information like reports of abuse across state lines. >> the fact that there were five states
involved, Texas, Minnesota, Oregon, Washington, California, certainly should be an enlightening
moment for our national legislators. >> reporter: it's a big ask, it could save lives. >> just getting
basic information is difficult. >> Kellee: that's the message from child abuse advocates. >> there
are a lot of problems communicating across states. every state has different policies around
child abuse and neglect, different data tracking systems. >> Kellee: while a nationwide database
can't be ree indicated overnight, advocates say it's worth the time and effort. >> when you
don't have that information, things slip through the cracks. >> Kellee: and that’s what the
sheriff of Mendocino county believes happened to the case of the hart family. during the
coroner's inquest a jury decided the children died at the hands of another. law enforcement
believes their deaths occurred after Jennifer and Sarah Hart thought cps might take their kids.
>> we are in full support of any kind of data bates that would allow our states, our child welfare
workers and law enforcement to make better decisions in the moment to keep kids safe. >>
Kellee: we reached out to lawmakers in Oregon and Washington to see what it would take. we
heard back from senator wyden's office, who says senator Wyden is pursuing legislative
approaches that both provide law enforcement with the real time tools they need for national
oversight and local responses to abuse allegations. Wyden also said as he works to change, he
would help protect privacy as this moves forward. coming up at 6:00, what can we as a
community do in the meantime to help? I have those answers. we're live in news control, Kellee
azar, katu news.
News Radio KEX
Apr 5 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_60

media outlets will tackle a taboo subject suicide had not why whole foods CEO of lines from
ihs's news organizations more runs stories of hope and healing in a campaign called breaking
the silence you are about to uncover a hope and healing I and connection to restore the you
can actually were doing old said last year in Oregon a 125 people died by suicide that's 40%
higher than the national average. the federal government and researchers around the world
will monitor the campaign as a model to make communities safer lines live is available at 102.3
talk 24 7 for those contemplating suicide. their families and friends some patients would have
47

to wait 15 days using Oregon’s doctor-assisted suicide law under a bill in the legislature that
waiting period was written into the law to make sure the patient is making the decision on their
own that would occur with compassion & choices said over more than 20 years since the law
was passed it has that problem there's absolutely no evidence to support the waiting period
between request from medically didn't dock and enhance patient safety opponents say the
waiting period is crucial and was part of the reason voters approved the law the bill remains in
the senate.
News Radio KEX
Apr 5 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_61

The Hart family inquest could become a catalyst for change when it comes to tracking child
abuse nationwide. shortly after the jury reached a verdict declaring the kids were killed at the
hands of another, and the two women died by suicide, ofs said the system failed the children.
because they moved to different state, keeping track of those reports of child abuse was
difficult for child protective service agencies, which is why now many advocates are hoping the
sheriff's voice starts a change. >> we are in full support of any kind. database that would allow
our state, our child welfare workers and law enforcement to make better decisions in the
moment. >>> lawmakers in Oregon and Washington were asked what it would take. senator
Wyden’s office says "senator Wyden is pursuing legislative approaches to provide law
enforcement with the real-time tools they need for nation oversight and local responses to
abuse allegations. "Wyden said he would make sure to protect privacy as well.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_31

County officials say their county has disproportionately high rates of youth suicide as well as
young people in jail or foster care they're looking to reverse those trends but their efforts have
stirred controversy more from pancakes south sound reporter will James pierce county council
members agreed to create an advisory board this week to address some of those troubling
trends in people aged 25 and younger but some residents are concerned the board would
infringe on their rights as parents council member honey latin merg one of the bill's supporters
push back this is the government talking about raise your children this is not an outside group
that would make policy decisions this is not an invasion of privacy this is not government values
influence your children she says the board will make recommendations on how to better serve
children were in trouble the bill passed in a 5 to vote the next step it is for the county to a point
19 board members from the community that could take several weeks
KXLY (ABC)
Apr 5 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_32

A coroner's jury in California has ruled the deaths of two Washington women and their six
children were murder- suicides. Jenn and Sarah hart's SUV plunged off a cliff last march-- with
them and their children inside. jurors deliberated for about an hour. before unanimously
48

deciding the two mothers both died by suicide. the jury decided the six children were
murdered. jurors sat through two days of testimony from experts and detectives who worked
on the case for months. investigators testified that they believed the crash was not an accident.
and that it had been researched and planned by both Hart women... the children had high
doses of Benadryl in their bodies.
FM News 101 KXL
US Apr 5 • 8:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_62

suicide is the second leading cause of death for those between the ages of 10 and 34 in or get
organization that takes us to the calls from people in crises handed a big check today excels
mike turner was present a million dollars has been handed out two lines for life by the nato
family long-time member and nato Campbell had a personal reason for selecting the non-profit
after watching her daughter lose a sexual assault case the defendants walked while her
daughter suffered a and I have I saw the bruises I am a witness her ptsd I sign it and she did not
want me or first-time contestant hi she wanted to protect us from a fan not houndstooth today
and today it's a gift of a million dollars from the sale of nato family property.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
US Apr 5 • 8:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_33

…it's the 25th anniversary of Kerch death and maybe we'll get into the less fun topic of for are
glorifying suicide the day of but Mike we help we'll but her favorites I’m Mike your favorites
Nirvana song the you know and you probably did it from may seek cover of a Dutch rock band
shocking Blue I'd actually until Chris explain that to me I did not know it covered when I heard
the song the first time I thought this is great and Chris explain to me just a few minutes ago
that's the cover and I’ve not heard the original but a lot of it as soon as I get home and savory
for a single track record is forcing him to put out first thing the shocking liver but out known to
run okay so here is is a lot of buzz is mikes favor Nevada so you what's best things I would not
let her go they say these are separate is that the actual that shocking but this is somewhat
curve active River of that have that it sounds like Yeah I mean I thought yet she cited different
lot of different songs that use of pretty actually a pretty terrific range Yeah as vocalist the don't
get enough credit I think and of course that's the cover of I not the number one song ever and I
don't think he gets enough Reddit for a as a lyricist I don't think he gets enough credit I think he
gets a lot of credit Yeah I think it's a tremendous amount of enough credit Yeah probably as
much this there's what one famous music critic said one by Kurt Cobain couldn't write a bad
song if you tried that's not true I mean that but my point being that I think he's always gotten a
fair bit of credit for being really good in is the 25th anniversary of his death by suicide and that
was one of the questions they had asked in this survey about Kurt Cobain specifically and ask
people of all ages because I remember 25 years ago a younger generation who is into music
down necessarily hasn't been exposed to Nirvana and what that was in that period of time for
the music industry right 31% Americans say Kurt Cobain's impact has grown stronger since his
death so with all these new people are coming in and being introduced to who Was who they
are and Dave Grohl von now like who led the inspired sense that wishes which is exactly what
49

happens when you die you die trapped in time right I mean this is what happened with jimmy
Hendrix as I did we didn't get a chance to live to see the disappoint us right so it's the was true
Buddy Holly apps are still talked about you know it's this is what happens when we don't get
this opportunity to see someone actually disavow their own music which is what absolutely
Kurt Cobain would have done at some point you're not disavow like tonight it the disavow like
what to move from it Yeah you got an ego and you don't take the risk of the fact elva stage not
at our crew was doing particularly well when he died of course he took his own life I eat Yes you
get to get that point where all the sudden they lose the get specifically McCarty of a Wash I
think I’ve not seen saying Lew's the gift what I’m saying is they sometimes feel trapped and
year-old monday to get back anyway…
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 5 • 9:01 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_63

The Hart family and quest could become a catalyst for change when it comes to tracking child
abuse cases nationwide. shortly after the jury reached a verdict declaring the kids were killed at
the hands of another, and the two hard women died by suicide, Mendocino county sheriff, tom
allman, said the system failed the hart children. throughout the inquest, we learned a number
of reports were made against the hearts in regards to child abuse, but because they moved to
different states, keeping track of those reports was difficult, for child protective services
agencies. which is why now, many advocates are helping the sheriff's voice starts a change. >>
we are in full support of any kind of database that would allow our states, our child welfare
workers and law enforcement to make better decisions, in the moment to keep kids safe.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
US Apr 5 • 8:43 PM

B_Apr_Wash_34

Reporter: their program director Chris Kellogg was just 13 when front man Kurt Cobain took his
life at the height of his career. in 1994, kiro 7 was outside his home shortly after his death. that
is where we watched as rocker Courtney love who had just married Cobain a few years earlier,
was comforting grieving fans. >> I’m sorry you are sad. I’m as sad as you are. >> reporter: kiro 7
also covered Cobain's public memorial at Seattle center's international fountain which drew
thousands of people from around the world. >> it is really difficult. we don't even know him,
but it is difficult. >> this is the original vinyl we received back in 1994 when never mind was
released. >> reporter: today, many of his fans still hold onto what this 90s grunge icon created
and left behind more than two decades after his >> he helped put Seattle on the map as a
music city. >> reporter: Kurt Cobain had one child. a daughter named Francis. she will turn 27
this year, the same age as her father when he passed away
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 5 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_64

we at kgw are proud to partner with journalists all around Oregon next week to break the
silence on Oregon’s suicide crisis. three dozen newsrooms will publish stories that spotlighted
50

the public health crisis and show the brave work to prevent suicide. we are starting the
conversation this weekend on straight talk. I told him from lines for life explained why it is so
important to have an open and honest discussion around suicide even if it is an uncomfortable
subject for many people. >> we hear very little about suicide for lots of complicated reasons. as
a result, we have made this a big taboo in a way that discourages people from reaching out for
help. this is something that is unprecedented. it is being watched by people all over the nation
as a model for how we can move forward and make safer and healthier communities. >> you
can watch the full interview on state straight talk this Saturday and Sunday at 6:30 pm

KOIN-POR (CBS)
US Apr 5 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_65

a local organization dedicated to suicide and substance abuse prevention received a major
donation today from the naito family. Jennifer: the bill naito family is donating $1 million to
lines for life, last year lines for life took over 110,000 calls, texts and emails, doubling the
amount in recent years. the investment will kickstart an endowment protecting and preserving
the longevity of lines for life. this gift will allow them to expand and start new programs that
they would otherwise not be able to do.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 5 • 9:14 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_66

the suicide prevention hotline lines for life got a big boost today from the nato Campbell family.
they announced they would donate $1 million, part of a $5.5 million donation going to nine
organizations around the state. the money is coming from the sale of two Portland landmarks,
Montgomery park and the gill ria. the family says the gifts were sparked in part by a cousin who
has stage 4 pancreatic cancer and is investing some of the money in a medical foundation. >>
he's doing chemo and he's doing well. it's every day is a gift. I hope that people learn from lines
for life or learn from your mother, grandmother, your children that every day is but a gift to
each and every one of us. >> lines for life says they plan to keep the money in a fund and just
use the interest, giving them steady funding for years to come. they are ago terrific
organization g. for them.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 5 • 9:33 PM

B_Apr_Wash_35

25 years ago today we lost one of the most iconic pacific northwest musicians, Kurt Cobain took
his life at the age of 27. fans from around the world came to Seattle to see how he changed the
music scene. here's a look at his impact on music. >> I came from Tennessee because Kurt
Cobain basically saved my life a lot of times and his music speaks to me this a way that nothing
else does. >> 25 years ago today it was also raining, so to be here 25 years later and it's this
kind of weather, the setting is still is same. it's a bit eerie. I’ve always been a fan of nirvana and
51

especially love Kurt Cobain so I made the trip specially down here today. >> the voice Kurt had,
the music he wrote, it's all just very raw and emotional, and I think it connects with people on a
really deep level. >> a man in a band that I think saved rock and roll and gave rock and roll a
whole new direction to go, I truly think nirvana and Kurt were probably the most influential
band in rock and roll probably since the Beatles. >> I have always loved him, um, what he
brought to people and what he brought to music and he was just an amazing person. >> yeah,
he had struggles, but who doesn't in life.
News Radio KEX
Apr 5 • 10:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_67

Oregon’s doctor-assisted suicide law would change under a bill state lawmakers are considering
11 90 kg x's brad ford has details Oregon’s doctor-assisted suicide law requires 15 day waiting
period matt Whitaker with compassion and choices says it's a flaw in the law for people who
face death sooner many though well-intended regulatory requirements are actually
impediments to access for patients patient might have medical changer paying that increases to
an untreatable level and might want to use the loss sooner dr. Kevin Stephens says there's
important reason that waiting period every moose protection for making too hasty decision to
answer my decision may be influenced by others under the bill the 15 day waiting period would
be way following doctor's certification that the patient will die within 15 days the bill remains in
committee.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 5 • 10:20 PM

B_Apr_Wash_36

Today April 5th marking 25 years since her on from Kurt Cobain took his own life here in Seattle
Balcones biographer saying it had realized the opioid addiction consumed the star is an even
greater courage today Charles a process there's no question about it and never deviated from
to Nirvana to worldwide Fame entrance Seattle into rock America was trouble guy in pain but
drug addiction he stripped from oppression period than suicide in the family he also our chronic
pain and get processed for being more than the musical voice of a generation he was also a
talented visual artist has an amazing book that he created over the years. Kurt had heroin in his
System on April 5th 1994 when he fatally shot himself cross says it's troubling that despite the
loss of this icon and many others the underlying issues for worse than ever this got a good story
in doubt hoping that the do pete carroll be a problem then the disaster would choose but brief
works almost like the hardest one could start United foot crosses former editor of cl music
paper the rocket he's recently updated his definitive Cobain biography.
News Radio KEX
Apr 6 • 12:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_68

Oregon's doctor-assisted suicide law would change under a bill state lawmakers are considering
you have 90 kg x is brad ford has details Oregon’s doctor-assisted suicide law requires 15 day
waiting period matt Whitaker with compassionate choices says it's a flaw in the law for people
52

faced death sooner many in wellington new regulatory requirements are actually impediments
to access for patients the patient might have medical changer pain that increases to an
untreatable level and might want to use the loss sooner dr. Kent Stephens says there's
important reason that waiting period between moose protection from making too hasty
decision to end of life decision may be influenced by others on the 15 day waiting period would
be way following doctor's certification that the patient will die within 15 days the bill remains
and committee
KONG-SEA
Apr 6 • 12:07 AM

B_Apr_Wash_37

Today marks 25 years since nirvana front man Kurt Cobain died. his death was ruled a suicide.
shocked fans of the band. today people gathered at defector memorial to remember cobain.
there is a vented and read apart. the topic on many of their minds is legacy. >> people from all
over the world come to this one spot. just to pay their respects. because their music touched
them. across an ocean. like that is what is it about. that is what we are here for. >> it is pretty
amazing that this, you know this place with no marker, no advertisement, continues to draw
these people from all over. it has been a nice surprise because people leave notes like, I quit
heroin because of you. I did not kill myself because of you. some really touching stories but we
did not anticipate that at all.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 6 • 12:35 AM

B_Apr_Wash_38

the band Nirvana its front man guitar player primary songwriter Kurt Cobain today is the 25th
anniversary of his death we do you remember Jean where you were when you found out teed
to die 94 94 moon I was in junior high I was in I was that how military school was my senior year
in and first some reason I notice sounds crazy I was on spring break a really Yeah that was a
military school so but all I know is is like I am of course the Seattle was a place that you know to
me was a far far away land I was never ever ever going to go to seattle Yeah but I didn't know a
Nirvana Yeah me too I was in junior high in new Jersey and a bunch of like girls and Kurt Cobain
T-shirts were wandering the hallways crying right and I was like Whoa what's going on and then
they told me and so I rushed home because in 1994 word there wasn't social media there was
there was barely an Internet there's no tmz so like when breaking news happened especially
women about it and 10 world especially in the entertainment world there was one guy who
broke that news to honesty you know that this they have gas Yeah he did he in TV Curt loader
that's yet mtv news Curt loader court order Hey he's the reason how I and 18 the see the mix at
the right make the same name be 5 yet _ninety_ _five_ wooden easy he got Yeah that's how I
own it easy he had passed away also occur Lord told me that so if you're like your 30s and 40s E
you don't work you know what we're talking about and so it was on April 8th that was the day
that that Kurds body was found I pulled I edited it a little bit but I pulled the announcement
from mtv news and I want to play at the time caps for you here Tiger order with mtv news
special report the body of Nevada we Kurt Cobain was found in a House in Seattle on Friday
53

morning dead of an apparently self-inflicted shotgun blast to the edge and we found one said to
be a suicide due to the scene but have not get the ball to the consonants for being was 27 had
reportedly been missing for several days the Los Angeles times reported on Wednesday the I
was breaking up on Kobane was planning to undergo drug rehabilitation the man's body was
found in a House in Seattle where he had previously lived was discovered by an electrician who
showed up around 8 a.m. to do some work at the House look in the window and said he
recognized the body on the floor as Cobain's
KOPB-FM (Radio)
US Apr 6 • 1:40 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_69

suicide is a public health crisis in Oregon that claimed the lives of more than 800 Oregonians
last year journalists have traditionally shied away from reporting on suicide for fear of causing
more of them but research shows there are ways to talk about suicide that can lower rates next
time on PBS morning edition we begin our series breaking the silence it's a collaboration
between dozens of media outlets across the state on breaking the stigma of suicide that's
coming up Monday morning starting at 5.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 6 • 2:25 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_70

a local non-profit that helps prevent suicide and substance abuse is getting huge financial boost
anne and her family donated today she talked to fox 12 about what this donation will mean. >>
when I first came on the board, it was about 20,000 calls for service. ten years later we're over
110,000 so you can see how this need has grobe. >> lines for life does operate a crisis line 24
hours a day, 7 days a week in addition to the Oregon youth line. you can also text if that makes
you feel more comfortable
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 6 • 9:11 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_71

we turn to new body cam video from a police shootout that left two officers injured. ABC’s
zachary kiesch is here with an extraordinary look inside what turned into a deadly siege. >> in
the driveway, the female is visible inside unresponsive. >> reporter: dramatic footage showing
the standoff that turned deadly in this neighborhood. watch as henry county police forced their
way into this home just south of Atlanta. >> are you ready? >> reporter: after discovering blood
on a garage door and a lifeless woman on the ground inside now known as sandra white. body
cameras they were wearing showed that volatile situation officers walked into. anthony bailey
who is believed to have been white's boyfriend fires what seems like endless rounds of shots at
officers. shoots at the cops and officer taylor webb is hit twice and takes cover inside the
garage. that's when another officer keegan merit attempts to get in and is shot in the hand. the
shooter warns police. >> do not come in here. I got a hostage. >> reporter: eventually police
54

break into that garage grabbing their wounded officer who dives to safety. after a tense 17hour standoff police say bailey took his life and found 39-year-old sandra white and her 16year-old son dead inside. >> we got three babies to bury. we don't know how we're going to do
it.
News Radio KEX
Apr 6 • 9:26 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_72

look back at the lasting legacy of Kurt cobain 25 years after his death here's ABC jason aikens 25
years ago on April 5th 18 94 it was a suicide the stunned the world tonight more time lead
death Kurt cobain was the lead singer of the group nirvana on paper turbaned everything the
top rock band in the world bill of millions of fans wife a new baby daughter but also a crippling
heroin addiction and personal demons cobain killed himself at a Seattle home April 5th thank
you men before leaving behind a suicide note read the fans by widow Courtney love it I birth
her program about an effort charles our cross tells us kobane change popular music runners
music was about the internal dialogue of Kurt cobain depression the anc's you alienate trend
those suddenly became a theme is the rock songs could be in power end you know that has
stretched over to grab and the other Kurt cobain was 27 when he died.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 6 • 6:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_39

the 28 year-old was best known for his hit wake me up for a Grammy nominee whose real
name was Tim bergling was close to completing a new album when he committed suicide last
april his co-writers finished the saw a new single eson last will be released Wednesday the new
album called him a drop in june his family says they wanted to share his music with hands the
proceeds will benefit the tim bergling foundation which focuses on mental illness and suicide
prevention.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 7 • 10:15 AM

B_Apr_Wash_40

a veteran from the city of the plot making his way across the country to bring awareness to a
very sensitive topic comes right coward House individual making his pilgrimage on select if you
could just walk a mile in jimmy no action should understand this mission much better I really
spiral down into a depression that was pretty good it is taking it put on a smile coming to work
going through the motions of my day I at one point retired sergeant first class considered taking
his own lie was a very dark place I’m very glad I didn't go through with it be heard other
servicemen and servicewomen do go through a report from the Department of veterans Affairs
says an average of 22 veterans die by suicide every day to drive that number home jimmy know
that began walking March 22nd Hill walk 22 miles a day ending in Florida on August 22nd which
is as you might have guessed 22 Weeks away he's made to the Tri-Cities so far he's still walking
despite the blisters ordered better you would think they would laugh he's stopping in towns
along the way to remind the rest of the country we're not all broken toys by any means and I’m
55

hoping to just kind of normalized it up a little bit make people a little bit more comfortable
having hard conversations is all begins with just being able to talk about a subject like that
trend Suisse not the most there anything you can do is talk about what you've been through it
able to put things into perspective we if you like to follow his journey search for jail no back on
Facebook and if you or someone you know feels too close to the edge someone is always
standing by to help.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 7 • 11:57 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_73

we're having an important conversation this morning. katu has been focusing on youth mental
health, with our kind is better initiative. one of the tough topics we're tackling is suicide, the
second leading cause of death among Oregon youth between the ages of 10 to 34. there's a
statewide collaborative effort to shine a light on Oregon’s suicide crisis. working together we're
hoping to make a big difference. as part of that effort and katu's kind is better initiative we
want to know what's under consideration in the Oregon legislature to address the youth mental
health crisis and improve the safety of all Oregon students. here to talk with us, an Oregon
lawmaker, former school board member, sherri melts from bend and superintendent of the
Willamette education service district. we thank you both for coming on the show.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 7 • 12:22 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_74

From katu news, this is "your voice, your vote" with Steve Dunn. >> constantly depressed,
constantly suicidal. >> scared to go to school. stam 5:00 aches, crying at night. >> dealing with a
lot of different things than we did. >> youth mental health has been the topic of our project
kind is better for the last year. now we're teaming up with other media outlets to break the
silence about the state's suicide crisis. tomorrow you'll see tv stations, newspapers and reports
all talking about suicide. research shows talking about it isn't putting the idea in someone's
head it's extending a hand and offering hope, so very important.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 7 • 8:21 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_75

We want to talk about suicide. historically, that word has been considered taboo in television
news. as a general rule and for a variety of reasons, we rarely cover stories of suicide. that
attitude is changing starting today. Elise haas has a look ahead to a brand-new state-wide effort
to change the discussion and break the silence. >> here are the facts. the suicide rate in our
area is above the national average. more people die by suicide than dive from car crashes, gun
violence or disease. it is a public health crisis. coordination with lines for life along with our
media partners and competitors throughout the state of Oregon. koin 6 news is joining in a
commitment change our coverage and shine a light on suicide. we call it breaking the silence.
over the next week on koin 6 news this morning, I’ll be bringing you statistics and stories
separate the facts from the fiction and end the stigma associated with suicide. most of all, every
56

day we'll be talking about how you can get help if you or someone you know needs it. you will
see similar storytelling from newspapers, television radio stations and -- television, radio
stations, and news websites throughout the region. how we all report on suicide will evolve. in
no way are we looking to sensationalize suicide. rather we look to provide you a better
understanding of the issues and resources needed to address them. while we know this won't
solve the problem what we hope to do is start the conversation and confront the crisis head on.
wes join us tomorrow morning as -- >> join us tomorrow morning as elise takes a deep dive into
suicide statistics here in our region and why the fears of contagion and copy-cat acts aren't
based in reality.
KTVZ (NBC)
Apr 7 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_76

The latest research finds that 65 percent of all suicides in Oregon were adults between the ages
of 25 and 64. twenty one percent were veterans. tonight, we launch a five-part series called
breaking the silence, focusing on veterans helping veterans. arielle brumstead talks with a local
veteran who says the program "save a warrior" helped save his life and many others. ### - save
a warrior is an organization that supports healing from post-traumatic stress and suicide
prevention for veterans and first responders. "they do five and a half day cohorts, theyre called
like camps. thethy put ese veterans and first responders through this course that literally
changes their life forever, it gives them their life back. not that it prevents them from wanting
to take their lif but gives them purpose back." - after doing research on save a warrior, matt
bassitt of bend joined the organization and helped raise about 38 - thousand do jars in just his
first year with the program he's veteran who served in the air force reserve. "i got the
opportunity to go through the program myself, and like I said it changed my life. I am a much
better person, father, co-worker.." - the organization says that within the last four years, its
raised about 200- thousand.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 7 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_77

there's a new survey that's shedding light on the struggles Oregonians face when it comes to
mental health. the survey as done by dhm research. it found that 31% of Oregonians had had
suicidal thoughts. that's compared to 21% of all Americans. the study also found Oregonians
have a greater exposure to thoughts of suicide and have experienced more suicide-related
deaths than most Americans. in fact 70% of Oregonians say they've spent time worrying about
a friend or family's state. experts say most mental health crisises are temporary and they will
past. one of the best things you can do is to talk to someone. call the national life line at the
number you see on your screen. stories like this is why katu is teaming up with other
organizations arn the state to shed light on this issue. >> reporter: here's something you've
never seen before. medicine use outlets from across the state, newspapers, websites and more,
from up and down Oregon, from the coast to the cascades and beyond, all working together for
common cause. through it all, one resounding message. society isn't doing enough. >> I think
it's kind of one of those things that's like it's really bubbling up under the surface but no one is
57

really talking about it. >> reporter: it's taboo. it's uncomfortable, it's hard to talk about the
thing that killed hundreds of Oregonians last year alone. we're breaking the silence, all of us
together. >> plays a big role in us getting better at this. >> reporter: we'll show you how in a
special collaborative report on Monday, April 8th, at 6:30.
KGW-POR (NBC)
B_Apr_Oreg_78
Apr 7 • 9:57 PM
We're obviously in the public safety roles. we're in the community. it is good people and there
were no signs. it wasn't -- just out of the blue. even hours before he died, you know. he wasn't
talking about suicide or depression. he was talking about where he was going to school, what
he wanted to do for his birthday in December. >> our thoughts go out to the mcmahan family.
they are talking a but this publicly because people need to talk about that and talk publicly. let's
talk about the warning signs. we'll put up a graphic of some of the signs you talked about
earlier. wanting to die or kill themselves, a change in behavior. what do you think about what
they said, they didn't see any signs? >> to start with when you think about young people in
general that sometimes adolescent behavior can be mistaken, or you can think through that
maybe my child is just acting like a teenager today. or they are just being emotional or
whatever that means and end up dismissing some of the things that you might notice otherwise
that really are signs that they are reaching out for help. >> it is also important I think that some
folks are determined to hide their struggle and we lost a friend to suicide not long ago and she
was a tryingsnal and it was not a part of her understanding of what professional means to reach
out for help even though she was surrounded by people who do this for a living and do this kind
of help for a living, so that is part of why this breaking the silence week is important. we have to
tear down the stigma and make it okay that people can say I’m struggling, and I need help. >>
you bring up a good point when y talk about parents because as a parent, it is just incredibly
stair ry to think your child could be that one that is at risk so being able to reach out to your
own child and ask if you're thinking about suicide or if you're okay with your mental health. >>
that is a hard thing to do. really hard thing to do. >> it is hard and important. it also comes to
the question of whether we expect our children to present vulnerability to us. I’m sure I was
like that when I was a kid. it was completely outside of my what I understood as their
expectation. >> we have to stop it there, but we'll continue through the coming week. we will
be covering stories about suicide prevention and we aim to offer hope and help. the story with
them and 6:00 p.m. on Monday. you can find all the stories from 30 newsrooms across the
state on one website. it is breaking the silence.com.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
US Apr 8 • 3:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_79

825 Oregonians took their own lives and 20s 17 more people in the state died by suicide them
from traffic crashes or firearms or drug overdoses and yet as a state as a society really because
of state mile course squeamishness more good intentions we simply don't talk much about this
serious public health issue this week media organizations around the state are coming together
to start to change that we are all collaborating on a project called breaking the silence now it's
one thing to say we should talk openly and responsibly about suicide but how do you actually
58

do that our first guest has been teaching news organizations how to do it for a while now Dan
right berg is executive director of save that's suicide awareness voices of education he joins us
now from Minneapolis welcome to the show thank you for having me thank you for doing great
work I should say before we start Let's remind everybody that the National suicide Prevention
lifeline provides free and confidential support 24 hours a day 7 days a week their number is
102.3 8 to 5 5 you can also use the crisis text line you just text the word home to 7.1 7.1 Oh
damn right bringing in the big picture room can you just walk us through the current best
practices that shoe recommend but when you're starting out when you're talking to a news
organization about how to talk about how to report on suicide to have slowed and really this is
so important because we know the science tells us that there's a risk of contagion or copycat
suicide and although it's a small risk it is this is a real risk around the world we know particularly
sensitive for young people so when we have the media reporting on who said it's really
important to him we work with them to do it safely and responsibly immediate
recommendations the best practices that exist for our country and our reference by the world
health organization really talk about language the right things to say the things that might
encourage somebody else we talk about data and how to Pew data responsibly and not too
much student using credible sources we also talk about sources for media to interview is
oftentimes we find media will go to the place where the tragedy occurred they will interview
somebody who has very little or no knowledge of the person who died and they use that as a
source that doesn't really help it doesn't help the public understand through send anymore and
it doesn't really address what was really happening for that particular person so the meat
recommendations go through all of these Current nuances that media have a real ability to
influence and how they report on a suicide the talks is that some of those about language for
example one the change I’ve seen just in the last dozen years or so is that instead of using the
phrase committed suicide we now say died by suicide or somebody took their own life what's
the idea behind that particular change there really is about by survivors those of them left
behind after suit said has occurred and the difficulty they have when somebody says to them
and their son or daughter their spouse committed suicide they think of committed to being
attached to committing a crime or committing Sen they don't think those who say is being
committed the same way we know that suicide is a result of multiple factors both internal to
the person and external in the world biological factors and that's very different than when you
commit a crime another example of the language pieces talking about sky rocketing or using
the word epidemic for example we know there's never been an epidemic of suicides anywhere
in the world I have no epidemiologist is ever found that we do know that there's increases and
suicide there's rising rates of suicide but when we say a word like epidemic and that's reported
in the media can engender fear for the audience and rather than having audience be afraid of
this topic love them to better understand it and you hope the Poynter Institute come up with
guidelines for media coverage suicide one of the idea is there that caught my eye is journalists
should choose the passive voice or indirect doctors which is something we normally talk to talk
use active verbs active voice because it's more present it's easier to read either understand so
for example you argue it's better to write something like a note was found rather than X left a
note what's the idea behind that's so often times when media reports and whose said it's done
very quickly there's something comes out so reporter goes to the place where it occurred in
have to get the story out some of its use would just within hours when we have somebody that
59

report on a suicide and there is no for example there's no time to examine it they don't have to
look into what might be behind it same thing with a manifesto in cases of mass shootings and
what we see happen when that more active voices is used is that there's more copycats there's
more people really trying to replicate what that was so then they'll still be another know for
somebody else when we need change to the more passive voice and we explained that that it's
being looked that it's being examined by others.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
US Apr 8 • 3:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_80

koin 6 is teaming up with our media partners and lines for life to break the silence and shine a
light on the suicide crisis in our region. jenny: each year more than 800 people in Oregon die by
suicide. but, that is just one of the staggering statistics. because, for every death, 280 people
think about suicide and don't go through with it. that adds up to hundreds of thousands of
people in our region contemplating suicide. that's why it is so important to remind you that
help is available. lines for life is one of those resources. if you or someone you know needs help,
you can reach them at the number on your screen. 800-273-8255. tomorrow on koin 6 news
this morning, we will take a look at the most at-risk groups in Oregon. also, why the fear that
reporting on suicide will create a contagion effect, isn't based entirely in fact. ken: breaking the
silence has a home on koin.com. you can find many more resources for assistance, contact
information for organizations that are dedicated to helping, and more. and we have all of our
coverage this week and a link to all of the work our media partners have put together as well.
KTVL (CBS)
US Apr 8 • 3:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_81

a partnership with the mail tribune have joined 30 newsrooms in addressing the suicide crisis
this week in the hope of saving lives. Jackson county had a record number of suicides in 2018
with 73 people taking their own lives compared to with 57 the year before. according to recent
statistics, Jackson county suicide death rate is higher than the rest of Oregon and the country at
33 per 100,000 people compared with 19 statewide and 14 nationally. >> if they know that the
resources and there is somebody they can talk to, they can talk anonymously, they don't even
have to give their name if they don't want to that is what we want people to know. there is
somebody to talk to. >> for people who are feeling suicidal, the most important step is to ask
for help. we'll have the full interview with rick rawlings this morning on the mailtribune.com
and we'll have a story on how law enforcement approaching mental health calls on Tuesday at
6::00 on news 10.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
US Apr 8 • 3:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_82

this week media organizations around the state are coming together to start to change that we
are all collaborating on a project called breaking the silence now it's one thing to say we should
talk openly and responsibly about suicide but how do you actually do that our first guest has
60

been teaching news organizations how to do it for a while now Dan right berg is executive
director of save that's suicide awareness voices of education he joins us now from Minneapolis
welcome to the show thank you for having me thank you for doing great work I should say
before we start Let's remind everybody that the National suicide Prevention lifeline provides
free and confidential support 24 hours a day 7 days a week their number is 102.3 8 to 5 5 you
can also use the crisis text line you just text the word home to 7.1 7.1 Oh damn right bringing in
the big picture room can you just walk us through the current best practices that shoe
recommend but when you're starting out when you're talking to a news organization about
how to talk about how to report on suicide to have slowed and really this is so important
because we know the science tells us that there's a risk of contagion or copycat suicide and
although it's a small risk it is this is a real risk around the world we know particularly sensitive
for young people so when we have the media reporting on who said it's really important to him
we work with them to do it safely and responsibly immediate recommendations the best
practices that exist for our country and our reference by the world health organization really
talk about language the right things to say the things that might encourage somebody else we
talk about data and how to Pew data responsibly and not too much student using credible
sources we also talk about sources for media to interview is oftentimes we find media will go to
the place where the tragedy occurred they will interview somebody who has very little or no
knowledge of the person who died and they use that as a source that doesn't really help it
doesn't help the public understand through send anymore and it doesn't really address what
was really happening for that particular person so the meat recommendations go through all of
these Current nuances that media have a real ability to influence and how they report on a
suicide the talks is that some of those about language for example one the change I’ve seen just
in the last dozen years or so is that instead of using the phrase committed suicide we now say
died by suicide or somebody took their own life what's the idea behind that particular change
there really is about by survivors those of them left behind after suit said has occurred and the
difficulty they have when somebody says to them and their son or daughter their spouse
committed suicide they think of committed to being attached to committing a crime or
committing Sen they don't think those who say is being committed the same way we know that
suicide is a result of multiple factors both internal to the person and external in the world
biological factors and that's very different than when you commit a crime another example of
the language pieces talking about sky rocketing or using the word epidemic for example we
know there's never been an epidemic of suicides anywhere in the world I have no
epidemiologist is ever found that we do know that there's increases and suicide there's rising
rates of suicide but when we say a word like epidemic and that's reported in the media can
engender fear for the audience and rather than having audience be afraid of this topic love
them to better understand it and you hope the Poynter Institute come up with guidelines for
media coverage suicide one of the ideas there that caught my eye is journalists should choose
the passive voice or indirect doctors which is something we normally talk to talk use active
verbs active voice because it's more present it's easier to read either understand so for example
you argue it's better to write something like a note was found rather than X left a note what's
the idea behind that's so often times when media reports and whose said it's done very quickly
there's something comes out so reporter goes to the place where it occurred in have to get the
story out some of its use would just within hours when we have somebody that report on a
61

suicide and there is no for example there's no time to examine it they don't have to look into
what might be behind it same thing with a manifesto in cases of mass shootings and what we
see happen when that
more active voices is used is that there's more copycats there's more people really trying to
replicate what that was so then they'll still be another know for somebody else when we need
change to the more passive voice and we explained that that it's being looked that it's being
examined by others then we give the audience the understanding that there might have been
some information here but we don't know all of it quite yet you've been talking about these
ideas for a while how have you seen but changes in general in the ways suicide is covered other
words are people hearing you had and changing the way they report on this issue Yes and no
there are some media outfit have been through the training and followed the training
recommendations really very well there are others that followed the marginally in there some
the still don't think the one change we can definitely say that we have seen since I released the
best practices in 2011 is that almost all media outlets just like you did at the very beginning of
this story is giving out a resource giving out the national lifeline of the crisis text line number
prior to the release of these recommendations that didn't happen very often so now we know a
couple things about that one it's important to give a resource for people and so they know
where To go in and what they can do if they're worried about somebody here they're worried
themselves about their thoughts the second is that we know that too many resources doesn't
work we've tried that seen that happen so by giving out one number two numbers like you've
done really actually seems to be very effective for people and that really has it has changed the
law lot Yeah in the last several years with do we go as a society you are or you know the experts
like people in your position from we don't discuss this because it's dangerous to and it's
dangerous not to discuss that's you're exactly right that that is the issue that is the reason the
very first is slide that night showing my training journalists is not about restriction this is about
responsibility what we know and what we've seen when you talk about Robin Williams tragedy
or even Kate Spade and Anthony bourdain or even some of the Department of defense data
releases are the cdc releases and there is an uptake in suicides and so we know that the media
has this significant impact is so really started in the 80s Indiana actually when there are a
number of suicides in the rails and said the government got together all the media
organizations and they looked at things they said we need some guidelines they created
guidelines it within 6 months there's a significant drop in suicides to really maintain over years
that is led over the last couple of decades to us saying look we should talk about this and the
more we do talk about this we educate the public we informed the public we hope the public
understand this issue it breaks down that stigma and discrimination the happens around
mental illness and definitely around suicide and actually now the latest research tells us is that
we can provide the messages of hope and that reduces the risk of suicide and if you're just
tuning in and talk right now about best practices for news media but really for all of us when it
comes to talking about suicide I guess is Dan right in bird he's executive director of save stands
for suicide awareness voices of education.
KGW-POR (NBC)
US Apr 8 • 3:15 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_83

62

all this week, kgw along with media around the state of Oregon are focusing on raising
awareness about suicide. the project is called breaking the silence. tonight at 6:00, we begin
with the story of one high school which lost three students last year. two of the families shared
their stories, including carol, and kyle McMahon. their son ben was a history buff who loved to
cook and was also passionate about football. the McMahons say we can all help prevent suicide
by being good listeners. and if something doesn't seem quite right, speak up. >> I think stigma
that has been around suicide needs to change. >> it's everybody looking out, because you never
know who that person they're just going to open up to. >> at sprague high school, students are
greeted with signs of inspiration and hope. administrators say through counseling, and suicide
prevention programs, countless other students have gotten the help that they need. >>> if you,
or someone you know is struggling and needs help, you can call the national suicide prevention
hotline. that phone number is on your screen today.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
US Apr 8 • 3:19 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_84

… sensitive and caring it and gives good help if you're a tracker not the traditional media
doesn't have that so the EU of those in the media have a greater risk of doing things that could
increase the risk of another suicide forces that more conversational discussion social media
would seem Does it seem it's like kind of in between those two I mean if there is an article to
say about it Robin Williams a couple years go what would you tell just me no any single person
who wants to Post sat with some comment in what should be in their mind before they
attended some comment he has they had as they joined the chorus of mourning in the world
on social media so great question and Here's what I would say to them and Here's what I would
say to you and in fact Here's what I say and training media around this put yourself in that story
if you can imagine that this is your loved one there has died how would you want to be talked
about shared on social media reported on in the media I would say put yourself out there and
that should just your comments when you Post something it is it is that it's a U.S. citizen I was
assuming I thought you were is something different I thought you were going to say put
yourself in the mind of a friend or family member or a loved one of somebody who at that time
is struggling in their own way with depression or some kind of a serious problem it is that not
the person we should have in mind its goals Ashley McMillan would typically when media
report on a suicide the reporting something that's already happened as opposed to some who
might have attempted to somebody might have thought about suicide we might be worried
about them languages still similar there's still some things then now we want to be careful of
we don't want to for example pet encourage them in any way we want to say things like Oh you
would never do that or you want to leave us all behind don't hurt us that's a different
conversation and posting a message versus someone who's already died by suicide so my
response then the question was really about if somebody's already died put yourself in that
position and I think about how you want that done if it is somebody that is posting a message
that they're in crisis there really struggling with things still need to be very careful and sensitive
about that do you think there are lessons in the coverage of suicide that could be applicable to
other issues and not think about drug abuse in particular right now because I don't think it's
63

standard when we write articles about you know the opioid epidemic to always include
websites or phone numbers for treatment options the way you say it it has become much more
standard in the media we talk about suicide should that be a standing issue should be to apply
these basic lessons to other societal issues absolutely and the other thing and we need to do is
not just apply them to those were reporting on these in fact it soon within a matter of a week
or two will be releasing a new set of guidelines and best practices for medical examiners and
coroners who talk with the media so we're starting to see there it's both and we need to both
connect with those were reporting on these issues are educating informing the public as well as
those were talking with the media who are helping the media do these stories so whether it is
both sides of that or his other issues like the opioid crisis Yes I think we definitely need some
basic standards the could be applied across all domains to and Ryne birk thanks very much for
your time thank you for having me thank you for the great work you're doing and this is a great
project that are kind of taking down that's downright bird keys exec director of save since
suicide awareness voices of education and just as a reminder again the National suicide
Prevention lifeline is available all day every day.
News Radio KEX
US Apr 8 • 5:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_85

doctors are urging Oregon lawmakers to dump a pair of bills aimed at expanding the state's
assisted suicide law I love about kx Gail Cunningham report house bill would allow assisted
suicide by injection inhalation arriving in addition to oral medication which he won college dr.
kenneth even says the role of doctors would also expand the violating the hippocratic oath
their task of trying to send team becomes a father be moot guard no distinction between
assisted day waiting period for patients with us suicide euthanasia and Oregon the senate bill
for 15 days to live and to they wait for those with less than eliminates 15 two days baring
county Mr. Coldwell says it's ironic when missed a suicide crisis opponent hope these bills died
in committee.
KGW-POR (NBC)
US Apr 8 • 7:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_86

a central Oregon veteran hopes to help his fellow vets by giving back to an organization that he
says changed his life. >> it's not just that veteran, or that policeman's life we're saving, it saves
their family. it saves their workforce. >> save a warrior is the national organization that helps
veterans and first responders dealing with ptsd and other mental health issues. it hosts weeklong camps, focused on suicide prevention. an air force reserve vet says it changed his life. he
wants others to have that chance to. the camps are led by others that have already gone
through the program. >> you've tried everything else. you've seen psychiatrists, and you've got
your medications, and you're like this stuff's not working. and save a warrior tends to be the
last house on the block. >> in the last four years, it's raised enough money to pay for 57 people
to go through that program. the organization hopes to offer a camp in Oregon in the near
future. and that story is part of a project we'll be talking a lot about this week. >> kgw is
partnering with media around the state of Oregon to focus on awareness about suicide. the
64

project is called breaking the silence. coming up here tonight at 6:00, the story of an Oregon
high
school that lost three students last year. two of the families shared their stories. their son ben
was a history buff, who loved to cook, and was passionate about football. >> McMahon said we
can all help by being good listeners, and if something doesn't seem right, speak up. >> I think
the stigma that has been around suicide needs to change. >> it's everybody looking out. you
never know who that person, they're just going to open up too. >> at sprague high school,
students are greeted with signs of inspiration and hope. countless other students have gotten
the help they need. tune in for our story tonight at 6:00. >> if you, or someone you know is
struggling and needs help, you can call the national suicide prevention hotline. that number is
right on your screen.
KATU-POR (ABC)
US Apr 8 • 7:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_87

we're in a crisis right now. >> for months in our station project kind is better we have been
telling you stories of sadness, depression, suicide but also survival, hope, resilience. now it's
become a statewide effort. we're working with media outlets from across the state including
our closest competitors to break the silence around mental health and suicide. it's a big project
because to call suicide a big problem would be putting it lightly. >> this is the most painful
thing. I don't want anybody else to have to go through this. >> coming up in an unprecedented
report we focus on one issue that happens in the halls of your child's school and fall follows
them everywhere they government kind is better presents breaking the silence, shining a light
on Oregon’s suicide crisis, coming up tonight at 6:30
KFXO (FOX)
US Apr 8 • 7:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_88

we continue our 'breaking the silence' series today by sitting down with a central Oregonian
veteran dedicated to helping fellow vets get the mental health they need. mike allen reports.
### language can be more important than we think. "we commit a crime. we commit adultery.
now we use terms like, 'this person died by suicide. this pers took their own life.'" helping us
change the way we think and talk about suicide and helping veterans... 'connect' -- a national
best-practice program for people struggling with suicidal thoughts. jonathan courtney, an army
veteran an suicide prevention instructor, said connect's veteran-specific program wa not
geared toward the type of people who live in central Oregon. so, he changed up the language a
little, making it more accessible -- and he already seen results from one his fellow vets. "this
individual actually learned to identify the warning signs, but it was actually more important th
they were able to connect with an individual, identify those warning signs, and then refer them
to th appropriate professional help." unsurprisingly, that's where connect's name comes from.
and unfortunately, not every vet who needs help reaches out to these kinds of programs -- and
there can be any number of reasons wh maybe he or she hasn't heard of them, or maybe the
amount of paperwork required to actually get help doesn't seem worth I but sometimes it can
65

be up to the people surrounding the vets to get them what they need -- and we can better
about tha "many times we forget or we blow off that someone's struggling, or hurting, and we
don't take the time to as if they're actually thinking about suicide or take the time to actually
help them." ultimately, it's the connections all servicemen and women share can wind up
saving fellow ve in dire need of mental help. "they're your brothers and your sisters, and you
are there to protect the people on your left and your right no matter what color they are or
where they came from. we all had to go through the horrible thin and we came out the other
side, and we have that special bond that can never be broken courtney's message to central
Oregonians, veterans or not, is to p attention to the well-being and needs of someone you think
might be struggling "if we don't take care of each other, who will?" ### there are several
resources for you or someone you know who may struggling. you can ca 'lines for life' at the
number on your screen, 24 hour seven days a week. or the deschutes county crisis line, or the
Oregon youth line you can find these numbers and other resources on our website, ktvz dot
com, under the community tab in the "let's talk" section.
News Radio KEX
US Apr 8 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_89

A coalition of lawmakers doctors surging Oregon legislators not to approve a pair of bills in the
legislature that would expand the state's assisted suicide law house bill 22 17 incident though 5
sitting 9 the put vulnerable or guardians at risk and push berg towards legalizing euthanasia
way jesse oncologist dr kent stephens says the house bill would expand the role of doctors in
ending their patients' lives allowing injection inhalation and I ve in addition to oral medication
the senate bill eliminates the 15 day waiting period for patients with less than 15 days to live in
the two-day waiting period for those with less than two days to live state representative mike
Newman says voters who approved the law 20 years ago we're promised to contain protections
against abuse stout these protections are being chucked aside both bills remain in committee.
KNDO (NBC)
Apr 8 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_41

a day that was supposed to be meant for reflection and religion... turned into a crime scene at
the bridge church. an hour before the normal 10 a.m. mass service inside the bridge church in
Richland a man cried out for help the subject is on the line saying please I have a gun I don't
want to hurt myself said he is at a church at the bridge what happened next when officers
responded was a series of events that ultimately led to 74 year old michael miller being shot
fired one down copy shots fired shots fired one down 910 they tried to communicate with him
and at that point he reportedly turned and pointed the fire arm at the responding officers
which prompted them to fire shots at the male subject witnesses who didn't want to go on
camera explained what they saw. we saw the man lying on the ground you could see the
shotgun clear as day he was moving around he was rolling it was obvious that he was in pain
can you request an on duty swat I need the armory up here the swat team ultimately
responded and assisted in taking the male into custody he was obviously shot he was injured
and they couldn't approach him they used their swat vehicle to ram the gate behind the church
66

like the playground miller was taken to the hospital and his current condition is still unknown.
we just got word from miller's family. they say he is out of surgery and recovering in the
hospital. and coming up at six. I’ll have more on the statement we just got from his family. in
the studio Justin honore NBC right now. please remember -- there is help available 24-seven. if
you or someone you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide
prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255.
KGW-POR (NBC)
US Apr 8 • 8:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_90

All this week, kgw along with media from around the state of Oregon, are focused on raising
awareness about suicide. the project is called breaking the silence. that includes this story here
from ktvz in bend. it focuses on the save a warrior program, which is about stopping suicide
among veterans and first responders. the program supports healing from ptsd and suicide
prevention. participants are guided by others who have gone through it before. >> I’ve got the
opportunity to get through the program myself. and again, it changed my life. I am a much
better person, a better father, better husband, better co-worker. >> if you're watching this, and
interested in helping save a warrior, there's a fundraiser coming up later this year. you can find
more information on ktvz.com. and we're going to have our own breaking the silence story
coming up tonight at 6:00. it's on an Oregon high school which lost three students last year, and
what we can all do to prevent suicide. on that note, if you, or someone you know is struggling
from the thoughts of suicide, help is available. you call the national suicide prevention hotline
24 hours a day. it's free, it's confidential, and it can help you with local health centers and
resources.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 8 • 8:13 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_91

some shocking new statistics show the number of kids and teens who visited the e.r. for suicidal
thoughts or suicide attempts doubled between 2007 and 2015. the study in the journal of the
American medical association says in 2007 the number of visits were more than half a million
n.2015 it was more than 1 million. researchers say almost half of the patients were between
five and 11 years old. >> there's tremendous pressure to be popular, how many friends do you
have on snapchat, Facebook. there's cyber-bullying. >> others include 5:00 deckic competition
and lack of resources to providers. we're joining with other news organizations around Oregon
to talk about the crisis. breaking the silence, tonight on katu at 6:30. there is always help
available and people to talk to. you can call the national lifeline at 800-273-talk or text home to
27 741741.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 8 • 8:15 PM

B_Apr_Wash_42

a shocking new study all parents need to hear. the number of children rushed to the er for
suicidal attempts or thoughts have doubled. in 2015 more than a million kids between the ages
67

of 5 and 18 were hospitalized up from the half million in 2007. mental health experts say
there's a long list of reasons for the increase. >> there's tremendous pressure on young people
now to be popular, how many friends you have, or snap chat, Facebook, there's increase of
cyber bullying. >> and there aren't many resources specifically for children struggling with
mental health issues. experts say there are things you can do at home. >> let your child fail. let
them take risks so that way they learn how to deal with it and learn how to be successful on
their own. >> also limit their time on social media and build in quality time with the family. >> if
you or someone you know are having suicidal thoughts, call the suicide prevention lifeline. the
number is on your screen right now.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 8 • 8:24 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_92

the number of children in the u-s who went to the emergency room for suicidal thoughts and
suicide attempts has gone way up. in our project safe family: the cdc says in 2007 more than a
half a million five to 18-year olds went to the e-r. in 2015, that number was more than a million.
mental health experts say there are a number of reasons why. including pressure to be popular
-- having a lot of friends on social media... cyberbullying... and pressure to get into colleges.
experts suggest parents let their children take risks and fail, so they learn how to deal with the
experience -- also limit social media and build in quality time with family.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 8 • 8:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_93

Tonight, as part of our better together initiative we will join newsrooms across Oregon to talk
about the suicide crisis. our state has a 40% higher rate of suicide then the country's average. a
new study shows the impact on children. >> more than a half million child written between the
ages of 5 and 19 went to the hospital for a suicide attempt. in 2015 that doubled to more than
a million. half of them were tween ages 5 and 11. suicide is the second leading cause of death.
this is according to the Oregon health authority. >> unfortunately, this is no surprise.
>>reporter: mental health experts agree. >> there is an increase of cyberbullying. >>reporter:
parents are stressed too, and children are watching. >> look at how they model how deal with
stress. they drink alcohol at night. >>reporter: data from the American academy of child and
adolescent psychiatry say most of the country face a severe shortage. 17 for every 100,000
children. >> let your child fail. let them take risks. that way they learn how to deal with it and
they are successful on their own. >> also limit social media and build in quality time with family.
>> if you need help or someone you nodus make sure you log on our website and click on the
better to get link.
KMTR (NBC)
Apr 8 • 8:45 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_94

there's new research out about the nation's youth and suicide. Canadian researchers studied
hospital data involving children in the u.s. dating five to 18 years old. hospital visits for suicide
68

attempts or thoughts nearly doubled over an eight-year period. the rate increased from
580,000 to over 1 million. scientists say a cause for the increase is unknown. experts say the
study’s findings suggest that mental health resources in the community needs to be
strengthened. >>> a good night's rest may be especially important for teens for attention
problems. one week their sleep was restricted the next they could sleep as long as they wanted.
when the teens got more sleep, they participated best with learning, planning and organization.
KGW-POR (NBC)
US Apr 8 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_95

and suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people in Oregon. tonight, the
conversations, experts say parents should be having with their children, so they can break the
silence about this crisis. >>> and that's where we're going to start tonight, with a subject that's
difficult to tackle and to talk about. also, very important to talk about. >> the reason it's
important to suicide. discuss, is because in Oregon, suicide is the second leading cause of death
among young people. that's why this week, kgw is partnering with media outlets across Oregon,
to shine a light on this problem. we're calling it breaking the silence. >> our hope frankly is by
talking openly about this crisis that we can help save lives. so we turn now to kgw's Kyle
laboche. >> as journalists, we've traditionally avoided talking about suicide. over the years,
we're been told by simply reporting on it, we might inspire others to take their own life. we can
all play an important role in helping prevent it. >> reporter: these signs of hope sprouted from
tragedy after the loss of three students who died by suicide last year. >> ben was amazing. he
was always smiling. a great smile. just lights up the room. >> reporter: carol and Kyle McMahon
remember their son ben as a history buff, who loved to cook. the 14-year-old was passionate
about football. you could see it in his face. >> he was happy, he didn't lead onto any anxiety or
depression that we would have said hey, let's intervene. >> reporter: 17 days later, another
sprig student, Aaron brown also took his own life. Aaron was a good student with a lot of
friends who was an eagle scout. he came from a good family. his father, dr. David brown is the
long-time choir director at sprag. >> he was doing well in school. had lots of friends. >>
reporter: dr. brown says the loss of his son proves anyone is vulnerable to suicide. >> if a kid
like Aaron could get to that point, then anybody can. >> reporter: the first step to address this
crisis is to talk about it. both McMahon’s and dr. brown agree, parents can help identify
problems by digging deeper. >> we have to learn to start asking questions in different ways.
open ended questions instead of closed ended questions. tell me about your English class. then
let them talk. >> reporter: remind your kids, it will be okay. they'll get past the pressures of high
school, which at the time can feel insurmountable. sprag principal, Chris Swanson admits teens
are especially vulnerable to suicide. >> we've got to keep talking about it, because it is an
epidemic. >> reporter: these messages are helping, along with counseling, and suicide
prevention programs. there are untold stories of students who got help. >> to see them go off
and be successful, and happy in life is a great source of pride. >> reporter: the families believe
we all have a role to play in preventing suicide. we need to look for changes in behavior and
mood and ask about it. >> it's everybody looking out, because you never know who that
person, they're just going to open up to. >> reporter: if something doesn't seem right, speak up,
because you can save a life. >> it truly takes a village. >> it's a teacher, it's co-worker, family,
69

friends. >> reporter: if you, or someone you know needs help, there are resources available
such as the national suicide prevention lifeline. there's a number right there on your screen.
people are available to talk 24 hours a day, every single day, and that's the important thing
here. there's hope, there's help out there. >> and we so appreciate those families speaking out.
this is a conversation we started this weekend on straight talk. this is really a big deal. this is a
week-long project with newsrooms across the state. tell us how this got started. >> reporter:
we brought in journalists from around the state to talk about how to rton suicide. again, it's not
something we've traditionally touched on. now as a result, this entire week, media across the
state of Oregon, all across the state is reporting on this very issue, bringing a light here that
typically isn't talked about. >> we should tell people that we're going to be consolidating to a
website they can go to. >> and is breakingthesilenceor.com. one word.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 8 • 9:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_96

tonight, as part of the better together initiative we're joining mus room across Oregon raise
awareness about the state's suicide crisis. our state has 40% higher rate of sue signs that
country's average. as fox 12's Elizabeth dinh reports, a new study shows the problem is
impacting children and teens more than ever. reporter: in 2007, more than half million children
between the edges of five and 18 went top the emergency room for a suicide attempt or for
suicidal thoughts. eight years later, in 2015, that doubled to more than one million. nearly half
of them were bean the ages of five and 11 in Oregon alone, suicide is the second leading cause
of death among people between the ages of 10 to 34 years old that is a cord though Oregon
health authority which says 825 died this in 2017. unfortunately, the results were this study are
no surprise. reporter: mental health experts agree, that are multiple reasons. there is
tremendous pressure on yuck people now to be poplar and have friends we have and face book
there is increase of cyber bullying. reporter: there is pressure to get into increasingly
competitive schools and parent and guardians are stressed, too and children are watching. >>
look at how they are modeling how they deal with stress and how much are they tuning out or
drinking alcohol at night. reporter: there are not many resources for children who are
struggling. data are the American academy of child and adolescence shows the playoff the
country faces a severe shortage of providers viewer than 17 for every 1-00,000 children.
meanwhile, expert’s system guest trying some strategies at home. >> let your child fail let them
take risks that way they learn how to deal with it and they learn how to be successful on their
own. >> also, limit social media, and build in quality time with family. Pete: if you need help or
know someone who does, just log on to our web site, kptv.com, and click on the better
together link.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 8 • 9:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_97

a new study shows the number of children and teens in the u-s who visited emergency rooms
for suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts has doubled. natasha chen talked to mental health
experts to understand why this might be happening. in 2007, more than half a million children
70

between the ages of five and 18 went to the emergency room for a suicide attempt, or for
suicidal thoughts. eight years later in 2015, that doubled to more than a million. Nearly
half of them were between ages five and eleven. dr. nadine j. kaslow/ professor, emory
university school of medicine: "unfortunately the results from this study are no surprise to me,"
mental health experts agree there are multiple reasons for this. dr. nadine j. kaslow/ professor,
Emory university school of medicine: "there's tremendous pressure on young people now to be
popular. how many friends do you have on snapchat and Facebook. there's increase of
cyberbullying." also, pressure to get into increasingly competitive schools. parents and
guardians are stressed too - and children are watching. sheryl ziegler/ psychologist: "look at
how they're modeling how they deal with stress, who much are they tuning out, or drinking
alcohol at night." and there aren't many resources for children who are struggling. data from
the American academy of child and adolescent psychiatry shows the majority of the country
faces a severe shortage of providers - fewer than 17 for every 100 thousand children.
meanwhile, experts suggest some strategies at home.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 8 • 9:46 PM

B_Apr_Wash_43

middle school volleyball players were working out over the weekend when they spotted a
woman in distress.>> their quick thinking is being credited for saving her life. >> reporter: for a
team of young volleyball players in Fresno, California, it was a break from the routine. >> we
don't run that bridge ever. in my six years here, we've never done that and not in any sports
we've done. >> reporter: he had his team go for a run, but nothing prepared them for what
they found a.>> we thought it was a girl from our school. >> reporter: it was a woman hanging
from this bridge. >> I realized what was going on when her foot was dangling, and we all ran
down as a team to go to the coach. >> reporter: the woman had been trying to jump in an
attempt to take her life. shocked coach called 911. >> I said go back up and get her attention
and tell her life matters and for 10 minutes or so, they did not stop yelling and screaming and
telling her life mattered.>> she was trying to pull herself up. >> reporter: they pleaded with her
and she finally pulled herself up.>> what was best about it is I was proud to do it with my
brothers. >> reporter: the words of encouragement caused this woman to realize her life had
value.>> I believe that no matter what you're going through in life, if you pray and fight to it, he
will make it through. >> I am like a father to them, so to see them do the things that I instill in
them so gratifying. as a coach and as a father figure to them. I’m very proud of them. >> they
did everything right on that bridge. and they said if you see someone doing that, call 911 and
try to to handle the situation alone and get help from a trained professional as soon as possible.
and you can always call the suicide lifeline if you need help.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 8 • 9:53 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_98

deb: lawmakers in Salem are kids face mental health challenges and those at risk for suicide by
focusing on our schools. >> Lincoln: on a recent edition of "your voice, your vote," steve dunn
talked to an Oregon legislat a school district superintendent about the Oregon safe to learn act
71

and how that bill could help in the suicide crisis. >> we have good intentions, but I’m afraid that
school leaders and teachers, classified staff, they're overwhelmed with the current situation. >>
Steve: Dave is a member of the Oregon task force on school safety, and he led the effort behind
the Oregon safe-to-learn act. he says there's schools lack of resources necessary to help all the
kids who need it. >> they need technical assistance, training, and support to make a significant
difference in combating youth suicide. >> deb: representative helt, a republican from bend, is
on the joint committee on student success. and she supports the bill. >> the correction of the
problem is we don't have enough teachers, we don't have enough counselors and people in our
buildings. >> Steve: the bill would create 15 full-time positions in different regions across the
state, to support school staff and administrators in all the Oregon school districts to combat the
suicide crisis. bullying and help with youth mental health, the problem would cost $3.87 million
over a two-year period. >> this is a crisis that is gripping our state, and our students and our
families. and we really have to make a change. and we're committed as a legislature to making
sure we do so. >> Lincoln: last week the joint committee on student success put out their
proposal for an extra $2 billion in spending for Oregon schools. included in that proposal is the
safe-to-learn act. lawmakers are looking for ways to pay for it. that could mean additional taxes
on corporations. you can watch the entire interview about the act right now on katu.com. in
the "your voice, your vote" section. >> deb: sometimes all it takes to help someone is to be
kind. as part of our "kind is better" series, we've also launched the I will campaign. the idea is to
get people to commit to be kind I in specific ways. post what you'll do on the kable booth
Facebook page. >> Lincoln: there is help and hope. The nal lifeline is a good resource, call them
any time at 1-800-273-talk, or text "home" to 741741. you can get more information at
suicidepreventionlifeline.org. >> deb: we hope you found some value in this report. it means a
lot to us to cover these stories and it's katu's mission to offer insight and hope to our viewers.
in that we're not alone. >> Lincoln: check out all of our content from all the news partners in
this project on the topic. we've compiled it all at breakingthesilenceor.com. thank you for
watching. have a good night.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 9 • 1:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_99

over the weekend Marion County sheriff's office says thomas Dan was found unresponsive in
his cell after what they say was an apparent suicide attempt according to the sheriff's office
deputies perform CPR and was taken by ambulance to the hospital where he died he was 31
years old last week another inmate died in Clackamas County jail after being found
unresponsive in his cell that inmate had been incarcerated for 15 days on a parole violation
investigation by pb found that since 2008 more than 300 people died after being taken to
County jails across the northwest.
AM 860
Apr 9 • 2:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_100

Washington county is having some success in preventing suicides dr. Kimberly wrapped with
the county health department tells first addition they discovered a link between eviction and
72

suicide and obviously we didn't know what are the factors were going to come out because
nobody had done the night before at the local level we were very surprised two feet that
eviction know what the rate dr. president about 30% of our people who died and I feel fine so
rep says when said it uncovered that relationship they started to involve a mental health
professional in only the actions driving down the suicide rate in the county if you know
someone that's having difficulty coping and you're concerned they may be considering suicide
call lines for life we have a link on our Facebook page.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 9 • 3:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_101

ken: the suicide rate in the state is the 14th highest in the nation. that is why in coordination
with media outlets throughout the state, koin 6 continues break the silence on suicide. nearly
9% of eighth-graders self-reported having attempted suicide one or more times in the previous
year. worse yet, nearly double that percentage considered it. 1/5 of those who kill themselves
are veterans. our hope is that by shining a light on the crisis, people can get the help they need.
so, look at this number for lines for life -- one- 800-273-8255. it is a 24/7 suicide help line that
deescalates more than 95% of their crisis calls. tomorrow morning, we will take a look at the
signs of suicidal behavior. our effort to shine a light on Oregon’s suicide crisis has a home on
koin.com.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 9 • 6:18 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_102

Here's a quote Lawrence reports with a high rate of suicide among veterans the effort to save
lives can conflict with the desire to protect privacy if you live in Wisconsin you may already
know what Green alert sounds like on TV 40s are looking for missing Oak claire veteran 30 Was
reported missing by family and is considered a veteran at risk its statewide would name license
plate number picture height and weight suffers from PTSD from this service overseas as well as
depression he may be traveling to North Dakota and may have a can't gun in his possession
that's how it sounds this is how he feels if you're the veteran they initiated that Green alert and
had my face and vehicle information and everything everywhere along everywhere on the
Internet its radio ow aa it was on the highway signs of the electronic signs there was I was on
TV you on the news this Wisconsin combat add a former air force staff sergeant was in Green
alert like the one you just heard he found himself driving down the highway with his name and
his mental health condition appeared on Billboard's hear him say things like you know you see
this veteran don't talk to him don't approach him were withholding the sergeant's name to
protect his privacy no It's a bit late for that in Wisconsin he never consented to having his name
his health conditions made public you know when they felt very violating because I didn't want
everyone who doesn't know me and know I have problems maybe want to kind of crawling new
bigger hole that is not to say the sergeant is completely opposed to Green alerts but first some
background Wisconsin laws called Corey Adams Searchlight act Adams was in Afghanistan that
from Milwaukee who went missing in 2017 his family feared he was suicidal but police didn't
immediately treat him as a missing person adults have a right to disappear if they want to
73

Adams was found dead weeks later his family mobilized around the idea of a green alert system
and became law in Wisconsin last year and that attracted a powerful advocate my name's on
Golic I am a retired soldier he's actually a retired general who commanded special forces
numerous combat Meadows I’m not going to say at all he doesn't brag what Bowl Vick has been
public about is his PTSD and traumatic brain injury from more than 10 combat deployments a
put skin in the game 5 come up public on active duty we have to continue to be a statement
ties these things so that our veterans aren't afraid to get help both the case focused on the high
suicide rate among veterans which V.A. estimates is 20 per day when he heard about the Green
alert he was all-in he says the first 24 hours when someone goes missing are crucial to
preventing suicide we do for our elderly because we have tremendous amount of respect for
elderly we do for our children because we love our children and we need to do for veterans to
both gotten contact with his New Hampshire senator Democrat Maggie Hassan passive cosponsored a bill to promote green alerts nationally with Republican senator joni ernst of Iowa
herself in Iraq that Here's hansen and Ernst on Fox news what this deal would do would be to
establish a Commission the federal level to help States develop best practices to it developed
their own brewing alert systems as a combat that trend I’ve seen this many times server the
Iowa State Senate just passed a green alert bill unanimously in my home state many other
States are considering Green alert bills including Connecticut where Steve Kennedy is veterans
advocate he's in Iraq that and when he first heard about pre alert all he could think about was
the unintended consequences I have struggled with
with the same things and I’ve been suicidal myself life I’ve struggled with PTSD and depression
and the last thing I want to fly I’m feeling like everything is falling apart and I’m just completely
hopeless have all that sent out to every person I’ve ever known Kennedy says he's afraid
lumping veterans in with lost children and impaired elderly people is stigmatized Only a small
number of green alerts have actually been triggered all in Wisconsin one of them is the air force
sergeant who spoke with us I found out what degree Hillary and at that point changed direction
and headed out of state the sergeant deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan he's quick to say he
never saw any heavy combat but his plane did get shot at we get some bullets. you don't hear
their story where we would land in have to go and can she not occur out there to fix those
those pales we get hit by bullets still PTSD hit about a year after he got home in 2005 that's not
unusual the roots of posttraumatic stress aren't always clear and the majority of military
suicides are people who didn't deploy or seek combat he's been getting care of the medicine
v.a. for over a decade and he likes it steel in February this year he found himself on the phone
with the suicide crisis line it was just kind of made cleared another theory during they could
define me all and that was the point where they initiated green alert and had my face and
vehicle information and everything ever where he was a mask when he got to a friend's house
and friend quietly called police and luckily the sergeant says there was another veteran among
the dozen or more cops showed up and advent kept things calm and talked him into going the
hospital he's of two minds about the green alert it probably helps find me wrong but I don't
know if it helped me if that makes sense he thinks maybe saved his life but since then has been
roughed because I still face on a daily basis a constant barrage of questions of my personal life
what happened that day when I don't want to discuss that with those people it's not their
business walk up to me in the middle a meal at a restaurant your hair you agree alert guys you
74

know and it's just then immediately I’m taking back all those emotions I certainly respect the
germans concerns that's gone bolduc the special forces general you know there are valid
concerns but you're not week you're strong bold excess for reaching out to get help he says the
green alert system can be done right to balance privacy with saving lives any program we can
get to help them is I think worth pursuing I want my loved one alive right Wisconsin sergeant
get his point he's still of two minds it's still affecting mean dramatically in negatively know so
you don't but at the same time it's very possible that's why I’m here so it kind of goes both
ways.
KFXO (FOX)
Apr 9 • 7:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_103

there's a new initiative to help prevent suicide among veteran’s president trump recently
signed an executive order mandating a ne public health strategy. it' designed to better
coordinate suicide prevention strategies among the government and private sect groups. ##
veterans suicide is a tragedy of staggering proportions. hard to believe an average of 20
veterans and servi members takeay. who would believe that's possible the executive order
mandates grants be offered to state and local governments that provide effective mental
health services for veterans ### we're continuing our 'breaking the silence' series. today we
highlight a local non-profit organization that helps preven veteran suicide with servi dogs
battle buddies central Oregon’s been operating for about five years founder Kristina Olson
created the non-profit after moving to centra Oregon from Georgia. it's designed in part to help
alleviat symptoms of depression and p-t s-d in veterans. Olson says the dogs help in
fellowshipping when veterans feel alone, they also give vets gain a constant companion, along
with purpose a structure in their lives. ### "it gives them a purpose. you know, they have a
buddy that's relying on them to, you know, do these things for them every day so, it's a sense of
responsibility as well battle buddies of central Oregon offers dog training and emotional
support animals for veterans for free. they've served more than 20 veterans, a have placed
more than 20 dogs with vet ### and there are several resources for you or someone you know
who may be struggling. you can call 'lines for life' at the number on your screen, 24 hours,
seven days a week. or the deschutes county crisis line, or the Oregon youth line #### our
coverage this week on veteran’s suicide prevention is part of a large effort by media across
Oregon. other t-v stations, radio stations a newspaper are each taking a different angle on
suicide prevention to see more on their coverage, go to breaking the silence.com
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 9 • 7:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_104

Jennifer: according to the health authority the suicide rate is the fourth-largest in the country.
koin 6 continues to break the silence on suicide area dan: nearly 9% of eighth-graders selfreported having attempted suicide one or more times in the nearly double that age previous
year. -- that percentage considered it. one fifth of those who kill themselves are veterans. our
hope is that by shining a light on the crisis, people can get the help they need. please look at
75

this number right here on your screen. it is for lines for life, 800-273-8255. it is a 24/7 suicide
help line that de-escalates more than 95% of their crisis calls. tomorrow morning, we will take a
look at the signs of suicidal behavior. our effort to shine a light on our region's suicide crisis has
a home on koin.com. you can find many more resources plus, all of our coverage this week and
a link to the work our media partners have put together. also, the information on the phone
number you will find there.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 9 • 7:40 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_105

a whole community it's affected parents family friends and in a small town that loss can be
even more pronounced everyone knows the person or their family is part of our coverage this
week of organs suicide crisis was with Miller has the story of a central Oregon community has
healing after the deaths of two young men villagers lived and sisters for more than 20 years his
family built the 5 pylon near the edge of town both calls himself an elder and leader in the
community last may at one of his 9 grandchildren died by suicide gave Willett was 21 he left
sisters after graduation for college in Colorado he was incredible I’m just an incredible human
being and a heart full of beautiful soon after gave staff Willett had dinner with friends to help
out with his grandson service they talked about suicide we all recognize sleuth it was a real
problem and gave it was you know part of the problem part of that way and so what can we do
and then we began to do research and drew people together well Chris it 8 prominent
members of the community to be part of a group called for acute includes the school
superintendent and an organizer of the townsfolk fast ball 42 started meeting to figure out how
to help the sisters community then Galen was from sisters and a friend of games he was 22 we
worry that each one of them with love each one of game one I think underlying worse here
both boys attended sisters high school where heather Johnson is the only help T Chair over the
years she's seen students struggle our students more stress may different then there's just a lot
more pressure there's definitely more circumstances of anxiety and depression that I’ve ever
seen I’ve been in this field for 24 years as assisters community create Johnson's has a
movement started it was really amazing to see how our schools and how our community power
churches how everyone kind of came together and recognize that this is important no more not
on our watch no more this way speaking openly about suicide is new for Johnson and Willits
but hand it's a conversation worth having this like a neighborhood watch and people have to be
aware of this because maybe you or my neighbor parent and you can hear or see something my
son or daughter that doesn't come out and made this change and talking about suicide might
be new for the adults but it's been happening with students in their primes in between coffees
with scissors pressure and that you will concur with time off for stocks that she didn't know the
two boys who died last year's but sisters is a small town girl baby sitter was kayla best friend
chief that's losses made Wilkins' think about the people she didn't know when something like
this happens year kind of forced open your eyes and say Hey this person I care about is
struggling in this is something that could genuinely happened and up Sir I she's been there for a
friend in crisis talked insider phone case she carries a card with the crisis hotline number I
cannot run because I know I’m always going to need help this person but it's easier to come to
me that it is it to someone you don't know 42 the first initiative is called sources of strength
76

starting this fall the suicide Prevention program will train students to be a cheerleader it's bill
will it's just want to make sure kids are prepared if they decide to leave home going to go out of
this world that can get really difficult so we're going to be here to help you build schools so
you're ready the group worked with the school superintendent to make sure mental health
priorities are equal to academic wants.
KOBI
Apr 9 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_106

all this week 30 news organizations from across Oregon, including nbc5 news, are breaking the
silence. we're talking about suicide... because no one is. it's a difficult topic for journalists to
cover... because of the contagion effect. that's research showing exposure to suicide or suicidal
behaviors through media reports, can result in an increase in suicide. suicide is a public health
crisis that kills more than 800 Oregonians a year. that's why kobi-tv nbc5 vice president and
general manager bob wise and our news director craig smullin, working with Dwight Holton, the
executive director of lines for life, helped organize a summit in Portland last fall. It was for
journalists throughout the state to discuss the need to report on suicide...and to do it in a
responsible way. responsible way. for more information visit breaking the silence o-r dot com.
you can also watch Monday’s 5 on 5 feature interview with suicide prevention coordinator
kristin fettig from Jackson county mental health.
KTVZ (NBC)
Apr 9 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_107

we're continuing our 'breaking the silence' series. tay we highlight a local non-profit
organization helping prevent veteran suicide with service dogs. battle buddies have been
operating in central Oregon for about five years. founder Kristina Olson created the non-profit
after moving to central Oregon from Georgia. it's designed to help alleviate symptoms of
depression and p-t-s-d in veterans. Olson says the dogs help when veterans feel alone. they also
give vets a constant companion, along with purpose and structure in their lives. ### "it gives
them a purpose. you know, they have a buddy that's relying on them to, you know, do these
things f them every day so, it's a sense of responsibility as well as battle buddies of central
Oregon offers dog training and emotional support animals for veterans for free. they've served
more than 20 veterans and have placed more than 20 dogs with vets ### there are several
resources for you or someone you know who may be struggling. you can call 'lines for life' at
the number on your screen, 24 hours, seven days a week... or the deschutes county crisis line,
or the Oregon youth line. #### our coverage this week on veteran’s suicide prevention is part of
a larger effort by media across Oregon. other t-v stations, radio stations and newspapers are
each taking a different angle on suicide prevention. to see more on their coverage, go to
breaking the silence o-r dot com.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 9 • 8:07 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_108

77

in partnership with the tribune we are addressing the suicide crisis this week. in hopes of saving
lives. breaking the silence. of survivors a story which you can read on the tribune website. you
spoke to a woman who attempted suicide? where did this begin? >> this began in her teenage
years. her family had moved to Washington state, and she started at a new high school and had
a lot of trouble adapting. at that time, she wasn't aware that she suffered from a mental illness,
a combination of depression and anxiety. so normal experiences were very hard for her to deal
with and cope with and that resulted in a suicide attempt. >> what is she doing to help others in
the community? >> she's quite the success story. she is speaking out about her experience. she
did training so that she can do public presentations and she spoke out with us at the tribune to
share her story to say that you can go on and have a meaningful life. she has a job in healthcare
and is doing very well. a great story and a must read. suicide is at an all-time high and Jackson
county. is there an indication as to why? >> there were 57 suicides in the 2017, and I jumped up
to 53. the medical examiners are not quite sure what it is. they see a general lack of hope and a
sense of disconnect and the people who have been victims of suicide. >
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 9 • 8:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_109

Tonight, as part of our better together initiative they raised awareness act the suicide crisis. our
state has a 40% higher suicide rate. >> as we address the crisis it's important to teach teens to
think about mental health. we'll head to south Albany’s class of 2021 that is looking at mental
health first-aid. >>reporter: stepping off buses and into classrooms away from their usual
classrooms. sophomores are learning how to spot the signs of struggle. >> we would like
students know what to look for in mental health problems and crisis and what to do when their
friends are struggling. this teaching teens to be more mindful. >> we are allowed to have these
feelings. >>reporter: they struggled with anxiety and depression and walked away reassured on
how to help their friends. >> a lot of my friends they struggled with. they cut-off their friends
and stopped talking to me. >>reporter: they learned a five-step action plan to help those
suffering from a mental health problem. >> because what we know is student’s consistency tell
their friends. they are feeling depressed. the code of secrecy was president. >>reporter: they
have four full-time counselors to come in from outside the school. they would like to reach
students sooner. >> I would like to wack a mole. this will touch kids sooner. they are helping
themselves and each other. >> I have finds with depression and bad home lives. I try to help
them and this gives me more tips to do better than before. >>reporter: fox 12 Oregon. >> the
better together initiative focuses on the stress teens face along with ways we as the community
can together. we have a full list on our website at kptv.com.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 9 • 9:07 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_110

working with 30 other newsrooms across Oregon we are taking this week to talk about suicide
awareness. as part of this date wide initiative of breaking the silence. here's more on the story
from mike marut. >> reporter: according to the Jackson county district attorney, Justin Lopez
78

yelled just kill me to law enforcement officers as he pumped a shotgun walking towards police
officers. brown fired an injury Lopez. a grand jury found the actions of justified even though
Lopez’s gun was not loaded. >> safety is the key thing and the first thing that we are thinking
about. >> reporter: when I asked local sheriff’s agencies for data they didn't have any. some of
them do keep data on the number of mental health calls and suicides. for Jackson county
sheriff's office, the numbers of mental health holds have decreased in the past several years.
for cnt mental health calls have increased over four years. for Josephine county in 2017 and
2018 sheriff's office responded to 11 suicides and 9 suicides respectively. klamath did not have
hard numbers but saying that deputies respond multiple times a month for suicide concerns
including suicide by cop. lake county sheriff's office did not respond to our request for
comment. >> having more perspective on that it gives you one more tool from the officers’ safe
standpoint. >> reporter: deputies are trained to respond to calls depending on whether or not
mental health is in play. whether they find out before or after when they arrive on the scene.
>> sometimes it's a lack of siren or flashing lights that will play into it from the first second that
we arrive. >> reporter: deputies’ partner with Jackson county health for training. in a similar
fashion, department of public safety also has crisis intervention training with mental health
facets. >> we have an understanding of their situation we can recognize and include mental
health disorders, treating them in a different manner. >> reporter: trainings happen weekly for
officers helping them learn how to approach a mental health call. >> just because we can't see
it doesn't mean that they are not afraid. and that they are not experiencing a crisis at the time.
it's very real to them. >> reporter: they partner with options to southern Oregon to respond to
mental health calls bringing a mental health background. >> frequently first responders can
effectively help someone who is in crisis and get our assistance out to that individual. >>
reporting for breaking the silence I am mike marut. >> in the second part of his story mike
marut will say that maybe it's a good thing that they're receiving more calls for mental health. if
you are in need you can reach out to the numbers listed on the screen.
KOBI
Apr 9 • 9:15 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_111

In this two-part series you'll only see on nbc5 news, Allison ross shares two different stories of
trauma. but one alternative practice that many have been using for thousands of years to heal
pain. "one of the big losses of my life was when I lost my twins over 11 years ago and it spurred
me to want to move out of my life. when something horrible happens... life can seem to pause.
that hopelessness is all too common. I think about it all the time I had a loss in my family the
last couple of years through suicide and it has brought it to a fore and I also see nearly on the
daily basis the challenges that many people come to our studio dealing with mariane corallo's
story is all too common. according to the Oregon health authority. on average 2 Oregonians die
by suicide every day. the rates of suicide in Oregon have been higher than the national average
over the past 30 years. "the statistics are shocking, and it feels pandemic. tragedy can make
anyone want to disappear. "all I could do is want to pull the wool over my eyes and not engage
in the world and not be in the world and it wasn't until a yoga class that I could finally breath
again." taking time to not sit and worry but to sit and focus on breathing. staying present... and
moving the body. "there is a certain psychology to breathing practices there is an anatomical
79

aspect to it with the expanding and contracting it helps to detoxify our blood. and doctors like
jim shames with Jackson county public health agree. "to focus on natural processes within your
body and to take the focus away from fears, unnatural fears things that are historically anxiety
producing and focusing on the here and now, focusing on things you can control rather than
what you can't that is definitely beneficial." a skill that corallo now uses in her everyday life.
When traumatic things blind us how do we react and if we are breathing deeply and come to it
with more awareness than we can digest those things more healthy (nats) "it does offer a little
bit more grace using grace... to carry her through her days. it can open your heart in ways that
you never thought you could be. and it's as simple as breathing. in medford allison ross nbc5
news. if you or someone you know is going through a mental health crisis. there is help
available. you can call 1-800-273-8255.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 9 • 9:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_112

Tonight, as part of the better together initiative we're joining newsrooms across Oregon to
raise awareness about the state's suicide crisis them state has 40% rate higher. it is important
to teach teens to think critically. fox 12's Simon Gutierrez takes us to the class of 2021 which is
taking part in a nationwide pilot project on mental health first aid. stepping off buss and into
classrooms away from their unusual classrooms. >> for yourself. not even for a friend. how do
you do it for yourself. sophomores are learning how to spot the signs of vugle the basic idea is
to have students themselves know what to lack for in mental health problems and mental
health crises. and then also, what to do when their friends are struggling. >> they are the only
class in Oregon slowinged to take part in a pilot program funded through the born this way
foundation that teaches teens to be more mindful and open about mental health. >> they told
us it was ok to not be ok and that we are allowed to have these feelings. reporter: quinn brown
who I sass they struggle with depression and xane ty themselves walked away reassure and
armed with new information about how to help their friends when they are having a hard time.
a lot of friends who do struggle with this, they kind of shut themselves out like they cut off the
friends and they stop talking to me. reporter: en classes, students learn a five-step action plan
to help friends who are suffering from a mental health problem or cry he is and also when to
tell adult. >> because what we know is students consist continually tell the friends first when
they are having problems when they are feeling depressed or anxious. and this code of seek sis
very prevalent among dean teeners. south Albany has a strong focus with four full-time
counselor and two therapists who come in from outside of the cycle and with that said, the
school wants to reach students in mental health crisis sooner. I will be able to like there is
always a fire put out. and so, if we're doing well, then, we got backup and catch kids sooner and
get them out help. part of that evasion is student students helping themselves and each other. I
do have friends with depression and rough home leaves so I tried my best to help them already
and this class is given me some more tips and resources to even do even better than I could
before.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 9 • 9:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_113

80

the rand corporation is calling for more mental health treatment for survivors of mass
shootings. two behavioral social scientists posted a blog on the non-profit website saying
getting mental health treatment would prevent future suicides. research shows posttraumatic
stress disorder in kids who survive disasters can be delayed or return years after an event. >>
schools, teachers, parents, everybody has a role to play in helping to prevent suicide. I think it's
very important to identify especially individuals we know are at risk because they have been
traumatized. because they are dealing with an anniversary or an additional person crisis. >> the
scientists at rand suggest these individuals need to be identified as at risk and given suicide
prevention services. >> this week media outlets are taking part in an unprecedented reporting
event to break the silence around the state's suicide crisis. yesterday we told you about the
complicated relationship between suicide and bullying. Oregon state police are on the front
lines of the fight against bullying by running a program called safe Oregon, a school safety
tipline and web portal. they have received more than 3,000 calls, a third about bullying and
harassment including one that led police to save a teen in the act of suicide. >> feel safe, be
safe. that's safe Oregon’s motto since launching in January 2017. 1100 schools with 530,000
students have enrolled. >> there's three types. critical, urgent and standard. critical calls
immediately refer to the 911 center in that location and police and emergency personnel
respond. >> one at the led to police in hermiston. he texted a friend that he was going to kill
himself. two police officers rushed to the child's house finding him with a belt around his neck.
he got the mental health counseling he needed. >> that's one of the big goals is that we catch
these problems early. it can really be a turning point fromg down a bad path to getting the help
they need and going down a good path. >> captain tim fox says bullying reports are most
frequent but there have been reports of fighting, theft, school rule violations, drug use, child
abuse and drug possession. >> a lot of times it's administrative. if they don't know there's a
problem they can't talk to the kid. >> sometimes the student is the bully. >> it opens up lines of
communication, so we can start asking the questions, are you having a hard time? are you
bullying people? it's amazing when you start talking to them, kids especially, a lot of times they
will be honest. I’m having a tough time at home or I don't have enough food to eat and it makes
my cranky. it may be as simple as that. >> as for state police involved fox says the department
welcomes the work. >> we were happy that we were given this. state police do get a lot of
different things given to us from the other parts of government, but this is a program that we
really believe in wholeheartedly. >> nearly 80% of calls reported received by safe Oregon were
considered standard. another 20% described as urgent. more than half made through the web
portal with another 500 reported through the safe Oregon app. >> safe Oregon is a great
resource for your kids to have programmed in their phones. it's confidential. they can call 844472-3367 or email. >> to see our full coverage, you can go to breaking the silence or.com or
look for it on twitter at breaksilence.org
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 9 • 9:51 PM
B_Apr_Wash_44
thoughts of suicide are things kids are struggling with more than ever. a new study reveals a
number of kids who contemplated or attempted suicide has doubled the past 9 years. >> half of
them between the ages of 9 and 11. our sister station and dallas shows us how frightening
81

cyber bullying takes a village. >> staff recognition -- >> reporter: there's more to education than
teaching, three school administrators proven that. >> there happy, that is the way it should be.
we always said if we could save one child, it was all worth it. >> reporter: she remembers
protecting her young son at the neighborhood park. >> it is a mom's worst nightmare, losing a
child. >> reporter: david will forever be her 16-year-old son, he committed suicide after being
cyber bullied. now, she is the force behind david thought, that lot gave schools the teeth to
combat rolling and gave todd the idea for nap called stop it, where students can anonymously
report issues like bullying. >> that is what it does, deterring behaviors, people think twice. >>
reporter: hoping it would help those like david that lost their voice and will the live. >> all these
groups came together, these things came together and saved a life, it is pretty awesome. > light
saber award. >> reporter: administrators in texas heard the plea for help from a teenager in
virginia using the stop at app, together, they saved that child's life that day. marines a fight is
not over, she urges parents to talk to your children, teach them to be responsible with
technology. because soon, they will graduate from the park. >> look at them, all they know is
happiness right now, keep them a little happier, let them be kids longer. >> reporter: soon they
navigate the cyber and social playgrounds, and it will take a village to keep them safe.
KTVZ (NBC)
Apr 9 • 10:02 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_114

We're continuing our 'breaking the silence' series. today we highlight a local non-profit
organization that helps prevent veteran suicide with service dogs. battle buddies have been
operating in central Oregon for about five years. founder Kristina Olson created the non-profit
after moving to central Oregon from Georgia. it's designed to help alleviate symptoms of
depression and p-t-s-d in veterans. Olson says the dogs help when veterans feel alone. they also
give vets a constant companion, along with structure in their lives. ### "it gives them a
purpose. you know, they have a buddy that's relying on them to, you know, do these things for
them every day so, it's a sense of responsibility as well as battle buddies of central Oregon
offers dog training and emotional support animals for veterans for free. they've served more
than 20 veterans and have placed more than 20 dogs with vets ### there are several resources
for you or someone you know who may be struggling. you can call 'lines for life' at the number
on your screen, 24 hours, seven days a week... or the deschutes county crisis line, or the
Oregon youth line. #### our coverage this week on veterans’ suicide prevention is part of a
larger effort by media across Oregon. other t-v stations, radio stations and newspapers are each
taking a different angle on suicide prevention
KOAB (PBS)
Apr 9 • 10:40 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_115

reporter: a year and a half ago, 84-year-old jim ellis moved from a facility in Arizona to kadie
glen, a 60-bed long-term care facility in east wenatchee. he'd already lost his leg to a medical
complication and says losing his mobility and independence have been hard. and, he says, other
residents feel the same way. has anyone here that you know ever talked about or said that
they're thinking about suicide here? >> oh, you hear it practically every day. or>> Reporter:
82

you'll hear other residents talking about it? >> oh, certainly, and I’ve probably saiysd it melf. bu
t... eh, it's talk. >> reporter: julie rickard is working with management at kadie glen, which
hasn't had a id suictre, to y to prevent one from happening by screening residents for
depression and suicidal thoughts, teaching staff to recognize warning signs, and then
intervening when necessary. some families watching this might start to feel a bit guilty for
having their loved ones go into long-term care facilities. what would you say to them? >> I
would say, you know, there's lots of reasons that people go into long-term care. this isn't about
whether it's a right decision or wrong decision. what it's about is, what are we doing on the
backside to make su re that the person is transitioning well when they are going into long-term
care? that we are doing the things to support them and stay connected. >> reporter: a big part
of that means pairing people who are not adjusting well with those who are, to help them
reconnect and re e -engaghewith tni commuty. nefor ja, davisenthat mtoring piece is key. >> I
think the biggest thing is connection. if you have no connection, if your voice is no longer heard,
why? what's the "why" for life? and just having someone to listen to you or to tell your story to.
my dad had a great story that he loved to tell, but no one was listening anymore. >> reporter:
for many families evaluating long-term care options for their loved ones, just learning the
history of a facility can be challenging. kaiser health news reporter jonel aleccia says there are
no federal requirements to report suicides in long-term care, and most states either don't track
these numbers or wouldn't divulge them. you would think that this kind of information on
suicide in a long-term care facility would be tracked by the state. >> you would think that
somebody would be watching. and what we found is that it's very difficult to tell which longterm care centers have had suicides, how your loved one, whether your loved one is in a place
where that might have occurred. >> reporter: jonel aleccia recommends that families
considering long-term care ask what suicide prevention and mental health protocols are in pl
e.ac but, she cautions that the work being done in wenatchee is one of the only programs she
was able to find across the country. for their part, both jane Davis and Julie rickard say we need
to do better as a country of valuing the elderly and reduce stigma around depression and
suicide. >> I don't want this to happen to anyone else. it haunts you. so to be able to talk about
the suicide, to talk about deonpressi and anxiety and all those issues that stem from addressed.
we need to get rid of the stigma. we need to understand that a person is a person and talk
about it. >> reporter: for the pbs newshour, I’m cat wise in wenatchee, washington. >>
woodruff: if you or anyone you know is feeling depressed or suicidal, please call the national
suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 10 • 3:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_116

suicide is the leading cause of death among American Indian and Alaska native youth and
suicide rates and native communities are up to 3 times higher than in non-native communities
according to a recent study by the cdc tribal leaders say they need to call really specific
response to this public health issues Doug there is one of those leaders he is Prevention
activities coordinator for the Confederated tribes of whose lower of pot inside a slight Indian
any joins us now from Coos Bay a very welcome to the show maybe our I’m doing great thanks
very much for joining us I should say before we start I want everybody that the National suicide
83

Prevention lifeline provides free and confidential support 24 hours a day 7 days a week there
are a number the toll-free it's one 802.3 8 to 5 5 you can also text the word home to 7.1 7.1
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 10 • 3:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_117

He is Prevention activities coordinator for the Confederated tribes of whose lower of pot inside
a slight Indian any joins us now from Coos Bay. A very welcome to the show. I’m doing great.
Thanks very much for joining us I should say before we start I want everybody that the National
suicide Prevention lifeline provides free and confidential support 24 hours a day 7 days a week
there are a number the toll-free it's one 802.3 8 to 5 5 you can also text the word home to 7.1
7.1 Doug dared to mention just a few seconds ago some national statistics can you give us a
sense for the scale of this issue that you're facing in southwest Oregon among York
Confederated tribes and in Indian country in Oregon more broadly well we have the highest
rate of anybody world pole vault populated with
that on Dec the so but like a warm spring they have got down to create better or you didn't act
to and I grab my bar the good things we could but they ought of all deeper more we started
talking about the what I met them and food by ideology didn't it we want to talk about we find
a bottom of the collar and acted start talking about and we talk a law to lump the got he get
there they don't know what was going on with her life can you describe how old is in talking to
circle well I talk about a third we act have to eat it in court that help well court that leave you I
think you hit the problem but honored that we act we do our can and neck all time on their
journey we had one lap reporter the two 30 in the morning to talk about the idea out how to
get it but I thought other you build it discriminated against the No. one today the piety and I
owe a lot to get to the wall all on the verge of breaking they feel like there's nothing else for the
beleaguered alcohol and drug and begin to mend our pocket full of They believe it how did he
get over that and the pocket and her rocker other around and talk about what bothered with
going on in your life what you know what Buckingham kid get in trouble Yeah but I think it all
what made you go there I think if that's how you get there basically and what can we do to fix
the we come up with earned the burials and in a different way to get back in back-to-back but
the PRI basically that we can talk about it you're like thought about what you got a big but not
about food and think with the canoe journey it can be done about it but it believe we can do I
can get any kind of metaphor or like there for people who aren't familiar with it with canoe
journey is what I say get what we do on our own make rivers and everything to get that could
do it I couldn't call we have a bill they would any other kind of program and back their
curriculum we use the word could bring into the school everybody if you live in because a lot of
ground that they could come up with that talk about the typically buy food irradiation and how
to help you get through all and don't we get do we can canoe journey Ackley them they're good
they're turning the main one part up and Canada and Alaska to come down all around and they
end up a different kind of close it need different years sometimes go up to Canada come down
we act we'll leave our from Miami River into Colombia that up into the found the need to go
out and go through 48 that the main could do during a minute then what we do without within
days the Rep called like Devon Berry the map good the bad and I am okay there I think the
water we do that we do that every night on the why it's important to have him call release
84

specific forms of suicide Prevention in native communities what do you think this brings to a
problem that that none native approaches wouldn't ringing well they were walking in the world
there are White Indian what happened half I walk both world the ballot but that will be hard to
do to bring back our culture or our rude let them understand where they're from and how they
are connected to the third the everything else I help them become ballot and all 9 kind of
Oregon we have there are a bunch of different things we can't yet they on me Oh my dad but
battery and know you're G ery Ga are okay and my batteries and gone the about that will keep
going what is there is a sound you're hearing in your hand as well as we keep hearing I got kind
of a quiet foghorn the background it happened but I have been told old founder of ships sounds
okay definitely back there is big Yeah no it isn't about both will talk as long as you're better can
hold you're talking about why it's important to have you know culturally specific suicide
Prevention tactics I’m there all we also use the line and it everything we got the northwest
Portland area Indian health board a lot of the given a different name playing the unit and our
urgent and talk to him and talk with our kids and we need we greatly and I got here could
Anywhere we all got a band together and went into the cool thing Hey we're here to help if you
think maybe talk or maybe did I don't the time they will but like it blacked out and bring them
back and do whatever we do on the yard of the project the puck and third goal Glatt logged a
canoe journey could trigger any of the largest dugout off the event but they are but maybe in
the world it's like 10000 people for at the end of the daring and the not something a lot of
things to be our group we bring her own songs the band about we and we have called all about
and bringing out your own gone and the and M sean what we are how much of the work you're
doing now and the efforts that you were really pushing for how much it boils down to simply
having more of a willingness to their dream up questions of suicide and to ask people who
seem to be going through really difficult times if they're considering hurting themselves well
before we didn't even talk about it now Yeah the question now Yeah you know the Q.B.R. rating
with the way to refer and I love to have that training but it might get it out there that they did
what they're going through on a daily basis and you know we have historical , generational
problem but tribal folk they keep down for a generation and generation we're going to break
that cycle of addiction and bring back the of the crime was it hard for that matter it was hard
she learned to ask people directly if they were suicide don't Yeah kaine and kaine why we do
the pocketbook you know we have kids that come and have dinner and upload drop but about
erican if the kid could come back we come in and talk to benefit from but the current for it Yeah
any referral but Lerner Italy can act honorably in overthrow of people we can act we've gotta
wrap around third the work I will vote for a different program that we don't learn about it's real
life real Marine life Doug Barry thanks very much for your time thank you Sir good that's a bear
he is Prevention activities court order for the Confederated tribes of cruz lower OPCW and site
slide Indians that's one of my books again the National suicide Prevention lifeline has free and
confidential support all day every day their number is 102 to 7.8 to 5 5 you can also text the
word home to 7 4 won 7.1.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 10 • 3:22 PM

B_Apr_Wash_45

85

Chicago police are asking for officers to come forward to seek mental health after seeing the
7th Department suicide since last summer ABC Ryan Murrow reports Chicago police
Department has released a new video featuring higher-ranking officers sharing their own
stories battling depression and encouraging officers to seek mental health porch I just didn't
expect that type of feeling of depression and did next I want to take my own life I did not one
alive police superintendent Eddie Johnson says they want officers to know they are getting help
will not hurt their careers we have always let them know we have a bag he says the
Department has increased the number of licensed clinicians to 11.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 10 • 7:26 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_118

The bill passed the South Carolina house 99 to one. it now moves to the state senate. Ron
Wyden is urging the f-c-c- to establish a new three-digit phone hotline for mental health crisis
and suicide prevention. in his letter he cites alarming suicide statistics from Oregon that have
been reported recently as part of the statewide "breaking the silence" reporting project. saying
that Oregon’s suicide rate is higher than the national average -- killing more than 800
Oregonians. and increasing 35 percent from 2000 to 2017.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 10 • 7:37 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_119

Jennifer: tonight, we are continuing to shine a light on suicide with our media partners
throughout the state of Oregon. we want to focus on what you can do now if you see
somebody who may be in trouble. jeff: ask the question, are you thinking of suicide? it shows
you are show -- you are open to talking about it. show support of someone by putting distance
between the person and their chosen method. and be there, whether that is physically present
or over the phone. being there for someone who has thoughts of suicide can be a lifesaver. help
them connect with ongoing support and resources that can help them establish the safety net
of those moments they find themselves in crisis. and follow-up. see how they are doing. leave a
message. a text or a call. find out if there is anything Jennifer: if you are somebody else you can
do. needs help, it is available. call the number on your screen. tomorrow we will be taking a
look at cyber bullying and the connection that has to suicide. and how one social media giant
has joined in the prevention effort. our effort to shine a light on Oregon suicide crisis has a
home on koin.com. you can find more contact information for organizations that are dedicated
to helping, all of our coverage this week including a link to all of the work our media partners
have put together is also on koin.com.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 10 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_120

Senator Ron Wyden says suicide rates in Oregon have been higher than the national average for
thirty years... and he wants to do something about it. he's urging the fcc to establish a new
three-digit phone hotline number... for suicide prevention... and mental health crisis... as soon
86

as possible. he says suicide kills more than 800 Oregonians a year. and, the numbers continue
to go up. he says this public health crisis is not going away and the current system of help is
nowhere near adequate. right now, people who need help can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline at 1-800-273- talk.
KTVZ (NBC)
US Apr 10 • 8:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_121

There are not enough resources for veterans dealing with mental health there are not enough
resources for veterans dealing with mental health issues in the u.s. as Jacob larsen explains, a
central Oregon non-profit's working to help change that, and provide help. ### "these people
are suffering, and they are suffering in silence if you will." since January of 2018 a central
Oregon non-profit called 'the shield' has been offering mental health services at no cost for
veterans and allows for vets to stay anonymous in seeking therapy. Dan Anderson’s the cofounder of the organization which aims to break down barriers for anyone in need to find the
help they're looking for. "we don't have enough providers to support the demand. so that is
one of the things that motivated us to start the shield is to provide services on a prompt basis."
Anderson says right now there simply aren't enough resources for veterans. nationally, on
average, 20 veteran suicides occur each day. and that number is higher for the state of Oregon.
Anderson believes by providing mental health resources that number can be improved. that
starts with stopping stereotypes and changing the conversation around veterans and mental
health. "i think in terms of de-stigmatizing, the first thing is to eliminate any stereotypes
because these folks are individuals like all the non-veterans are individuals. rather than to sort
of figure that because someone is a veteran, we're going to have a certain sort of picture." the
shield's main goals to open a dialogue and trusting relationship with veterans before a situation
turns into a crisis. "for a large number of folks, if they take care of their mental health then
suicide does not become an option for them." ultimately because there are not enough
resources for veterans when comes to mental health the sheild is hoping to expand to reach
out to as many veterans as possible in central Oregon. "we work with everybody. but that was
one of the ideas of the non-profit was to just basically eliminate barriers to that anyone can
come and get help." Jacob Larsen Newschannel 21 ### there are several resources for you or
someone you know who may be struggling. you can call 'lines for life' at the there are several
resources for you or someone you know who may be struggling. you can call 'lines for life' at
the number on your screen, 24 hours, seven days a week... or the deschutes county crisis line,
or the Oregon youth line. #### our coverage this week on veteran’s suicide prevention is part of
a larger effort by media across Oregon. other t-v stations, radio stations and newspapers are
each taking a different angle on suicide prevention. to see more on their coverage, go to
breaking the silence o-r dot com.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 10 • 8:08 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_122

this week we're shedding light on the suicide crisis in Oregon. collectively, working with media
across the state to help prevent it. tonight, we're highlighting an impactful resource for
87

struggling teenagers, based in Portland. it's called youth line. it's a crisis line supported with
lines for life. people from all over the world call, text, chat, or email the line. volunteers say
people reach out because they just want to be heard. by listening, the volunteers are helping
save lives. >> sometimes it's more important, and it's more impactful to just sit with someone
and be like, this sucks. like how you're feeling right now sucks, and I think that can be just as
valuable with communicating with someone, that there's so much out there there's worth living
for. >> team volunteers are there from 4:00 until 10:00 every day. Morgan Romero will give you
a deeper look at this resource tonight on the news at 6:00. and here's a reminder. if you or
someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide there is help available. you can call the
national suicide prevention hotline 24 hours a day. that number is on your screen. it is free, and
confidential, and can connect you with local health centers and resources.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 10 • 9:09 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_123

volunteers work to break apart the stigma surrounding mental health and suicide. one of only
sixteen to teen support lines in the world. volunteers talk over phone, chat, text, or email.
helping with battles from suicidal ideation, mental illness, sexual abuse, or just a bad day. >>
you will let people know that they're not alone, and that can ultimately be lifesaving. >> teens
need to be heard. >> reporter: youth line says they had about 14,000 contacts last year. >>
these youth are feeling empowered to contact somebody and actually talk about what's going
on for them, which is part of that process, right? >> reporter: volunteers are not given contacts
they're uncomfortable with. >> yeah, we have a lot of support around us. we always have
supervisors. >> reporter: they also do outreach, and education in schools and the community.
teens go through extensive training, and certification to do this work and give three and a half
hours of their time each week. >> yeah, we'll go from there. >> reporter: there's around 100 of
them, but many are graduating soon. >> we want to continue to grow. >> reporter: so, there's a
need for more. >> the skills that we learn here, they don't just stay confined to this room. I take
them with me everywhere I go. >> reporter: they're growing personally, and professionally
along the way. >> our youth are growing all sorts of ways. that maybe they didn't expect, and
maybe we didn't expect. >> it's not all doom and gloom. you make a f really wonderful
connections with people. >> reporter: surrounded by a nonjudgmental support network of
people, while stamping a lasting impact on the world. >> teen volunteers are there from 4:00 to
10:00 p.m. every day. you have to be between 15 and 20 years old and live in the Portland
metro area to volunteer locally, or the central Oregon tricounty area to volunteer at the new
satellite office. if you want to get involved, reach out to the youth line. we have that contact
information in this story on kgw.com. back to you. >> and if you are a teen wanting help from a
peer, you can call, you can text, you can chat, you can email the youth line. for everyone else,
the national suicide prevention hotline is always available. >> both of those numbers are on
your screen right now. the youth line number is 877- 968-8491. you can find more information
at Oregonyouthline.org. and the number for the national suicide prevention hotline is 1- 800273-8255. both are available 24 hours a day, if you or someone you know needs to talk with a
counselor.
88

KDRV (ABC)
Apr 10 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_124

senator Wyden is urging the federal communications commission to establish a 3- digit phone
hotline for mental health crisis and suicide prevention. senator Wyden says that for the last 3
decades Oregon’s suicide rates have been higher than the national average. Wyden says that
while there is a 10-digit number for people to call, a simple 3-digit number similar to 9-1-1
would be easier for people to remember. if you are having a metal health emergency or
considering suicide ... you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline... the number
is 1-800-273-talk.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 10 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_125

this week tv stations, newspapers, radio stations and more are taking part in an unprecedented
project called breaking the silence to shine a light on Oregon’s suicide crisis. senator Ron
Wyden urged the fcc to adopt a three-digit hotline for mental health crisis. we talked to him
and he says a three-digit number similar to 911 would get people the help they need and
prevent suicide. >> what we need is a system that really shows how important it is that there
be somebody on the other end of the line to help with a mental health charges. >> there's
already a national hotline. some argue a 3-digit number would be easier to remember. more
than 2 million people called the hotline in 2017 alone. >>> prince Harry, and Oprah are
developing a tv series taking on mental health issues. they said they are partners, co-creators
and executive producers on a multi-part documentary launching on apple tv in 2020.
Kensington palace says it aims to inspire viewers to have an honest conversation about the
challenges we each face. >> to see all the stories, we have done and that our competitors have
done for the project go to breakingthesilence.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 10 • 9:23 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_126

We've been bringing you stories about suicide prevention and today we're breaking the silence
with other news room on this important shall aou. >> tonight, we're introducing you to a young
woman who you are is 50-fived two suicide attempts. as fox 12's Kelsey watts shows us she's
sharing her story to help others realize there is help and they're not alone. >> these days Kelsey
Johnson sees her life through a new lens. she's full of happiness and laughter. you'd never know
she's been through some very dark years. >> it's the idea that people are going to be better
without me or the world will be better without me. >> it started when she was bullied in school
that left her with serious anxiety and a feeling she couldn't shake. >> I had this mentality that.
>> she was in middle school when she had her first suicidal thought. something she battled for
years. then at the age of 18 thought turned to action. >> I tried to overdose on some
prescription pills I had. >> her way of coping was to pretend it never happened. she tried
89

moving on with her life without ever addressing the problem. it didn't work. a year later she
tried taking her own life for the second time. >> they told me at the hospital when I got to the
hospital the lethal limit was 1,000 milligrams and I overdosed by 1,500. so, I should have totally
died that day. >> that was finally the turning point that lead her to find help. >> I have to face
up to what happened because I want to get better for myself. >> she moved back in with her
parents and started seeing a psychologist and dug into her church aoupb community and
opened up to her loved ones about her struggles. >> the healing process never ends. but it does
get a little bit easier. >> she says recovery doesn't happen overnight, but it can happen. and to
anyone who else who may be in crisis she says you're not alone. reach out and get help.
because life is worth living. >> it's hard but it's possible and you can do it. >> come on. come on.
>> in forest grove Kelsey watts fox 12 Oregon. >> if you are 0 someone you love needs some
help there is a 24-hour crisis line available at lines for life and just call 1-800-273-8255 or. the
number is there on your screen about we have that information and full list of resources at
kptv.com. click on the better together link.
AM 860
Apr 11 • 11:15 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_127

we start with this story that many local news outlets including kate ammon the portland
tribune have been covering this week the public health epidemic in Oregon a suicide dana in
your coverage you included a compelling firsthand account of what it's like to lose a loved one
to suicide yet contacted journalists all over Oregon from the smallest rural towns the Oregonian
no pp you and to everyone that we're going to get a call breaking the silence a low bar for
decades to journalists did not cover suicide well we didn't cover it because there's a stigma we
cover it badly and so we all got together with blinds for life your position portland run by
dwight coleman a suicide hotline to try and come up with a better way to do it and so
repugnant glad that you're part of that clever and this week prince and we have an
editorial that was written by the Oregonian we have a lovely lovely article about washing can
either written by street groups a survey that we computed and course we have this great piece
by radio personality hewlett hamilton who lost her but the suicide one of the finest opinion
calling we've ever run in this zone in this week's issue yeah I really brings it home when you
hear from someone who has lost a family member to this because it ripples out invented our
family it's rebuild out through the generations we're college to choose that is an old friend of
mine that it's specl and yours did an absolute tremendous story not focusing on sorrow not
focusing on getting past sorrow but the whole combination the whole new normal of her life
and it's a lovely compelling terrific terrific piece I remind you this question just really quickly the
national suicide prevention lifeline is 100 to 7 3
AM 860
Apr 11 • 11:15 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_128

we talked about a new campaign in Oregon called breaking the silence 3 dozen news agencies
in the state are taking a different approach to reporting on suicide in the hopes of reducing the
90

rising number of suicides here at Portland should be known as one of the agencies involved in
here talking with us this morning about this john schrock with the pampling media group 5 john
and Rebecca how did this whole thing about it really plan for how that will happen look last fall
on a local non-profit lying to life you talked a lot about half of them they can be more
information session invited all the local media we learned about ways we can do a better job of
covering suicide in Oregon near the session range from doing the for it tips such as the leading
up mean for that and avoiding effort to cash at the motivation for my pick for life the broader
themes such as food importance of focusing of survivors and resources for those were
struggling but during the session we learned about the extent of the problem morgan week we
saw a degree that you know as a journalist we need to address with and about 3 dozen new
shops said you know what to do it together we're stronger together and that's if 0 exciting
finishes so when you learned about the extent of the problem of suicide in Oregon was kind of
a turning point for your thinking if you eat we're growing borough hall of the full of the best
reporters and editors and news directors in the state I think we are all shocked by the fact that
their work with a huge problem interstate that we didn't know about me if you think about it
I’m boarding for the federated far higher than the national average it typical week 16
Oregonians will take their allies that more than half that traffic crashes dozen drug overdose of
a bid for a second leading cause of death for orange under the age of 34 in chief those who kill
and help our veterans and include news to all of us who were in business yeah and you know
sadly we're out of time but there are solutions out there we want to mention the national
suicide prevention lifeline is one 802.3 8 to 5 5
AM 860
Apr 11 • 11:20 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_129

all week long the local news outlet sieve been breaking the silence son's suicide today and
thrive Thursday we want to make sure you have the tools needed to help a friend or loved one
who may be dealing with depression perhaps thinking of taking their life joining as said debbie
schleck and bond she izzy assistant crisis lines director for lines for life here in Portland and
Debbie first I want to thank you for taking a few minutes with us some first addition thank you
so much for having me it's hard to admit to yourself it's someone that you love could be
thinking about taking as drastic step as taking their airline him but it definitely happens it
happens more often then we know here in Oregon what do you do if a friend or loved one is
suicidal with first it's really important to understand that it's actually pretty normal to have
thoughts of suicide when we're going through a difficult time and allies and there really is a lot
that can be done with the court people were having thoughts of suicide to help them x that
they do not move from having us thought she acting on thought and on inflate breaking down
the big mob by breaking the silence like we're doing this week is a big art of suicide prevention I
grew up watching Mr. rogers on tv and Fred rogers had the great quote he says he didn't
mention of all its manageable and what we know is that well like you said opening up and
telling another person that you're having thoughts of suicide feels very scary to most people if
someone trust you enough to tell you that's actually a really good sign if they can talking with
someone who is accepting and nonjudgmental reduces the feeling of being alone with the pain
and you know what I’m thinking about suicide really most of the time there their pain they are
91

trying to find a way to deal with the pain and when we can be back caring nonjudgmental
person and just listen would that actually help so the best thing you can do when someone tells
you that they are having to decide hot and it's not that easy but if you can it's com and actually
like faith thank you thank them for crime fighting and you and reassure them that you support
them in getting the help they need it if you're listening to this like that is afoot super important
and if you're a fun thing like if some kind of hinting around they're giving you choose but
they're in trouble one of the biggest thing about suicide prevention an excuse for granted one
no one is use the words ask the question are you having thoughts of suicide sometimes you can
even say something like you know it's pretty normal to have thoughts of suicide where you're
going here really hard time which are you having thoughts of suicide we're often afraid to say
that we're afraid that if we talk about it like a guy that will put the idea in their mind but that's a
complete myth the most helpful thing you can do is just have that on congress patients and
then if they stay gas I’m like Fred thank them and if you don't know what to do next if you can
call a lifeline and we will walk through the next steps with fused together to me that it and oh
yeah and I know they eat you guys are great timelines for life in helping someone through that
process because my life is not just for those who are feeling suicidal it is also a resource for
those who have a loved one who may be feeling that way as well and giving them support
absolutely so the people who answered the phone and were there 24.3 65 and the experience
but it's bad it's not just about the person it's know in trouble but if year I’m concerned about
someone else. I will say that know very often and know people when they're in that much pain
they will start to go they'll say something don't reach out to someone and that's been talking
about it just caring and like letting them know that help is available I’m very often you that's all
that that's some sprinting through that actually really unique but I do want to say it's part of the
conversation that your safety, the safety of all those involved she always come first but with
there appears to be immediate danger I took the person had the weapon and indicates that
they planned to acome or suicidal thoughts right away is back when you call 9.1 but appeared it
if it's more like you know their confiding in you or you're just worried about someone in there
and putting out a sign that they're in trouble looks , Danny we've got the number up on our
Facebook page we so appreciate you breaking all of this information down for our listeners
today thanks for joining us some first edition thank you so much Kerry you dad and that's Debra
sweat and non she izzy assistant crisis lines director for lines for life you can find more
information on our first edition Facebook page 8 27 at the answer a.m. 8 60
KFXO (FOX)
B_Apr_Oreg_130
Apr 11 • 11:28 AM
A new company's working to support veterans one bag of coffee at a time. started by a Chicago
veteran... the mission is to end homelessness and unemployment among those who served
their country. anayeli ruiz has the story. ### they're called veteran roasters... they're a coffee
company with a purpose. all of these veterans felt lost after the military... but this coffee has
brought them back together again. "you know an opportunity in the industry that veterans
never thought that they would be able to lead to. especially those that struggled." braden
marty is the founder of veterans roasters. a navy veteran himself and he wanted to offer his
comrades a job after the military. "my brothers and sisters who served and then came back. it's
a tough transition." that's where veteran roasters was born. almost 2 years ago marty
92

partnered with a non-profit rag of honor to help veterans find the social services they need. he
also works with passion house roasters... who helped him with the equipment and space he
needed to start the coffee company. their mission is to help struggling homeless veterans like
Pedro diaz. "the thing that I had the most problem was with was finding a purpose." Pedro was
in the marine corps and had trouble adjug to his life after the military. "i was thinking of
committing suicide. I was going through my phone to say bye to all of the people and I looked
at my phone and got to 's' and saw suicide prevention and I called that number and the lady
talked me down." Pedro turned his life around veteran roasters was there to help... they offer
veterans a job, help with housing and any other service they might need. now pedro he feels
like his life has a n. "that security a sense of belonging and people see me, and they understand
me." "i think he has a bright future ahead of him."
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 11 • 12:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_46

state lawmakers close to passing an anti-suicide measure that would suspend gun-rights for
some calls growing make explain the bills as if a person has been involuntarily committed for
mental health treatment last 72 hours that person loses the right to possess A gun for 6 months
the social science behind the measure says those committed for 72 hours our ad extremely high
risk of suicide after their release state Senator Pattie could or Democrat from Bellevue
sponsored the know 6 months is not a long time to be without a weapon in order to get that
help them if you choose not to get that help your family will have sufficient time to get an
extreme risk protection order but rebecca Foust worries the courts have no role in the
suspension of constitutional right back problem is this those bases the decision to take away
our rights on the judgment of the designated crisis responder absent any judicial process of and
passed the House measures also expected to clear the Senate and be signed into law.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 11 • 12:28 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_131

it's all about how we can save roof our homes with guns. you know, keeping guns out of the
hands of people. it was also interesting; I was interested to know that there's lots of
information out there. >> helen: you knew that your son was depressed. it was a single
incident. >> guest: actually, he wasn't depressed. >> helen: in that moment, there was a single
incident. let's talk about someone who feels like their children or their friend or nephew,
whoever it may be, seems depressed and you are worried about that person. you say, call the
suicide prevention hotline and asked them what to do in general, what would you suggest? is it
acknowledge they are there; we see you, we are here for you? >> guest: absolutely. it's
interesting because depressed people feel overwhelmed and numb so what is the root of that
depression? so often it is a change chemically because they are in their teens. it's important, we
just saw acupuncture and we had the segment of pets on the show earlier. it is very important
for family members to let the person who is depressed no, you are not alone. and, we will be
able to navigate this together. in our culture there is a thought, I have to solve these problems
myself paid many people, for reed he was one of those people. there's so many things out
93

there, get on the internet and research. it was really interesting because you have this segment
on pet and a segment on acupuncture and each of those things can make a difference. >>
helen: right? >> guest: absolutely. >> helen: it is the 20th anniversary of columbine. what are
your thoughts? >> guest: my thoughts? I remember that day so well. I remember how it
affected my body. it is made a difference in the lives of all of those people, I am very, very sad
that we are all in this place where we are having - - >> helen: the same discussion over and
over. >> guest: from columbine to parkland. absolutely. now I feel there is a great deal of hope
because we are shining a light on suicide. there is money for research on suicide. people are
looking at suicide and saying, this is a condition that can be prevented and there is research
being done on that. >> helen: right. thank you for all of you do. I think it is phenomenal. >>
guest: you are welcome. >> helen: the book is called a new morning. we will put the suicide
prevention hotline number on our website for you at katu.com
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 11 • 1:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_47

a suicide prevention measure that also suspends certain gun rights is close to becoming law in
our state it says some who have been Committed for mental health observation should
temporarily lose the right to possess a gun comscore take the details still says the state can
suspend a person's gun rights for 6 months if that person has been involuntarily committed for
mental health observation for 72 hours States Senator Patty who heard Democrat from
Bellevue sponsored the will sing for her it's personal she lost a cousin in a moment exchanges
scary picked up his gang shot himself and those of us who study gun violence know that when
you're going to end your life by suicide with a gun there are very few do overs attorney Carrie
Reardon worries the measure would be applied to broadly many people are in for one surely
detained who do not have an issue that requires a threat to themselves or other the measure
has now passed the state House and is expected to pass the Senate as well core
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 11 • 3:28 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_132

pete: as part of our better together initiative, we are committed to bringing you information
about suicide prevention. this week we're part of a collaborative effort with
newsrooms around Oregon on this important issue. today we're introducing to you a young
woman who survived two suicide attempts. as kelsey watts shows us she's sharing her story to
help others realize there is help and realize they are not alone. reporter: these days kelsey
johnson sees her life through a new lens. she's full of happiness and laughter, you'd never know
she's been through very dark years. >> the idea that people are going to be better without me,
or the world's going to be better without me. reporter: for her it started when she was bullied
in school, that left her with serious anxiety and panic attacks and a feeling she couldn't shake.
>> hit mentality that, well, if people are treating me like this and happening so often, I’m
unworthy of love and unworthy of being treated right. reporter: she was in middle school when
she had her first suicidal thought, something she battled for years, and at the age of 18,
94

thought turned to action. >> I tried to overdose on prescription pills I had. reporter: her way of
coping is to pretend it never happened. it didn't work.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 11 • 5:33 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_133

The reason I ask you come on again so quickly is because your team is doing stories on the
problem of suicide and people may not have any idea of how much bigger this problem has
become we heard about suicides among veterans and specific groups but this has become a big
problem for our entire society hasn't really have a love hate had earned 20 people worried and
through online last year and only kgw 0 got together around this baby and decided to use them
this week doing stories about suicide prevention and some key open connection and how it
really does work hours and we're learning new things about how we in the media we report
suicide really can make a difference with somebody who's pro bowl on the edge the way we
report and if we focus on prevention and I hope I can really make a difference and help people
by not picking on my heart so before I go any further work and folks see this story your team is
putting on tonight solarz saw it go play confused series of debit cards at 6 p.m. tonight
specifically focuses in high school and now the students be administrators teachers coaches and
parents have all rallied and gotten together to get through the embarrassment of talking about
it and it letting people come forward asking people you know are heavy in thought about
suicide if you see somebody who might be in trouble who might be depressed the entire group
of the entire community only tim kaine has embraced this help to help other kids talk about
their issues hey you said we're learning new things what is the biggest best thing the society's
figured out about how to make this not happen that by what we do according to our ears if we
give them solutions are possible solutions for the people they can't talk to you I hope that it can
help people to not take that back to not take their own lives another thing mars things as
simple as saying committing suicide has a negative connotation like commit crimes so we're you
know we're saying dying by us sibert changing some of our turnaround pave the way for we
have negative connotations okay not rick you know I was skeptical I am scared a pickle because
I think when you dumb the turned down that that you're actually doing some damage trying
that but I want to ask you one question first about the business you've been in the news
business a long time right made 40 years I’m 44 years in the business you just work smarter
than I did and get better so I ask you something when you first got the business I was who I
learned you know we don't report on suicides in general if it's somebody famous me somebody
personal about the community we do this story if it's done in a way that a tracks large public
attention then we'll do the story but otherwise you cannot cover suicides at all as a news story
out of fear of inspired more of them now that's where I learned it did you learn that way I did
learn that way at large but experts lately have really done a lot of research in studying the
reporting of suicides have learned through metrics you know I don't have good literature right
in front of me but the experts in the business say they can report suicide avoid talking about
the met they've come back and create copycats person I think would robin Williams took a
double life by hanging there's an increasing hanging for me they court earlier that so we don't
talk about what happens if we provide some hope and some yet prevent the solutions like i'd
like to give you a number of cars from Iraq I know was do it once now don't have the numbers
95

100 and 7.8 to 5 5 that solo quick call center for the national suicide prevention mind you can
text and 7th street talk about the latest research shows away reporter it really can have an
impact on people who may be on the part so let me ask you is your newsroom going to start
reporting on some suicides that are not otherwise notable I mean if we have a notable figures
like robin Williams she's going to get attention it's a big politician that story we might talk and
sometimes lie and say the person really you know they died of an unexplained reasons and we
just kind of brush on is where the newsroom going to accept that from now on if you believe
the person actually took their own life I think we're going to you know look at the case by case
but I think this week you know extraordinary measures.
Media companies are doing this but if it closes open our eyes to the fact that it would on
Monday we did a big story at the break high school they lost 3 high schoolers one year and
they're talking about openly the parents want their kids for their own lives just talking about it
if we reported and offers solutions and look this is like we report about her condition for
breakthroughs that and other types of illnesses that we can tackle this we can get rid of this
state about of not talking about maybe we can make a difference bars and reduce the problem
now rick I want to challenge on a couple things Europe has your newsroom in New York 40
years and your business and the business have you ever can you ever remember a story where
you interviewed somebody who attempted to take their own life and not succeeded but
interviewed them about that all right I can't a bet you haven't and I i thought back myself
because of that so we're going to tell anybody about whose side the word not to talk to
anybody who's ever tried it would June do a story like that and say let's go talk to 4 of 5 people
who tried because that's the best window into will fly why did you feel you're at a point I i
fundamentally disagree with suicide in all forms including the kind the many newsrooms
celebrate like doctors assisting suicide but having said that I think be worth sitting down with 4
or 5 people and saying you tried why did you feel you were at the point where no other
solution but any year-old life was the only solution you have I agree with you and I think one
step beyond memoirs and then we'll tackle this look we open you know the eyes of our
audience and our problems in our society this is a huge problem so if we talk about this talking
to people who may be tempted to take their online for not succeeded and what brought them
to that level then what turned them around and what the future you know possible solutions
could keep them from going there again but I am the hotline for him but I hope that is out there
and really turn somebody or a second challenge you said Oregon has had notable growth since
two dads don't have the stature of them you and I know that we will have more choices and
molest party united states that I think were ordered to take 60 in Oregon we have 825 last year
yeah so let me ask you a question that's notable Oregon is also notable for re another reason is
the first government on planet earth to officially sanctioned doctor-assisted suicide he is the
fact that we have the normal at least one form of suicide perhaps one of the contributing
factors to the growth in suicide in this area I would think there's anything that's apples and
oranges on the suicide yeah and you have a form of suicide we say suicide is wrong suicide is
harmful to other people it's harmful of course the person who doesn't but it's harmful
everybody around them as harmful to the community but one kind of suicide is okay another
kind is not make that case to erect lars somebody suffering from a fifa has months to live in the
extreme pain or whatever we're better than we are right I consider it a different bars I think
96

that it being life in him and you know more merciful way you don't think that that might be
contributing factor to the growth in suicide here I don't know I’m not an expert but personally I
do not would you have reporter ask that question somebody idea not a fan of doctors is who's
like as far as I know of course not so that I really would love to have somebody look at that
because organs notable was the first government on planet earth just say the state says it's
okay we even told people on the Oregon health plan we won't carrier cancer but we sure
helped kill yourself I think that kind of message is a message that says those sides okay I think
it's a fair question to ask and I will follow up on that promise you you're good dan what's that
number again the number is 110.3 8.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 11 • 6:40 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_134

veterans have much higher rates of suicide than the general population so does the lgbtq
community but the problem compound when those communities are stacked Jonathan
Levinson has more on the challenges that lgbtq veterans fakes have penny think he can you get
it today sara hobson report the Department talking to two pet rats disco mellow out there I
think maybe he's not cut leave but she says they help with his mental health in the fall of 2005
hobbs on Jefferson Street looking for Portman's Vista bridge she was there to take her own life
it's true or not for a last-minute relaxation I need you to stick around for my kids we wouldn't
be having this discussion to hubs grew up in a conservative for Lauderdale Florida home her
family was active in the coral Ridge Presbyterian Church a Mega church known for right wing
activism gay conversion therapy when she was 15 she realized she was bisexual it then dips
grow part we're just sick seas Skype hurt us harm I also want to join the military in high school
she joins you are he's 10 days after graduation she joined Nadal was 1981 and Hobbes was 18
conservative 19 seventy's Florida in the 19 eighty's military weren't tolerant come out of a
church and cake dead by troops commanded the military I’m kate and of the military and
everything was shut out don't doubt I You're going to be he does so with age she says living in a
closet with the fear of being discovered for so long contributed to the anxiety and depression
she lives with today the military was the sole cause she also has a rare nerve disorder the cause
intense pain her faith but don't ask don't tell very much at play to make drew all the veteran
suicide rate is about twice that of the general public among lesbian gay bisexual people who
attempted suicide rate is 3 to 4 times higher than the general population it's up to 10 times
higher for transgender adults for the lgbtq people serving in the military those two factors
come together the that compounds the problem for people my experience with briing Cochran
psychology professor at the University of Montana he led a 2013 study of mental-health of
LGBTQ veterans and if term almost 15% of all lgbtq servicemembers times suicide that
compares to an estimated less than 1% for the entire Russian population we found that ultrakeep better and to experience a great level of anxiety around and appealing their sexual
orientation or gender identity did and how great rates of depression it he says this is the
product of discrimination it's really be environment people are and how different environment
may have a higher level of discrimination victims patient and that's what we use the
psychological impact on people.

97

I call a gaping kids Danny Myers with American elections for equal rights and the transgender
American veterans Association he's gay who served in the Navy and army for 10 years during
and after the Vietnam war about how we use our reach we don't they're going to put a roof it
wasn't just about avoiding a dishonorable discharge or verbal abuse Myers says the stakes are
much higher good one was taken aback that you couldn't tell by your fellow closed roof living in
fear every day for two for Myers case 10 years you become moderate and you have what are
called PPF think it veterans forced out of the military because of their sexual orientation or
gender identity are often ineligible for V.A. benefits they earned do they serve us in 2015
Oregon was the first state in the country to appoint an LGBTQ veterans coordinator to help
address the community's unique needs but the V.A. can be intimidating organization especially
for people who already face discrimination at the hands of the government Sarah hubs wasn't
forced out of the military and she does have qualifying disabilities but for her the idea of
reliving her trauma and fighting an organization not designed for her it's too much it's kids so
they approach straight male that chance she'd rather make do with what she have she does on
pensions no one important thing the V.A. crisis Prevention hotline isn't just for disabled
veterans even if you've never contacted the V.A. in the past Doha appeared and it's not just for
veterans family members friends if you're concerned about your life you can call they will help
talk to Levenson located cannot 24 7 hotline number is 802.3 8 to 5 5 he can find more about
our week-long partnership about suicide in Oregon I visited the website breakingthesilence.com
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 11 • 7:31 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_135

All week, we've been bringing you stories intended to shine a light on suicide and, with our
media partners throughout the state, change the way we report on this public health crisis.
Jennifer: while not directly attributable, a rise in cyber bulling has coincided with a recent rise in
suicidal behavior and Facebook is taking steps to be part of a solution. >> the idea is to create a
more socially supportive environment and use this tool as an educational opportunity to teach
friends how to be caring friends in a social media environment. Jennifer: under the guidance of
suicide prevention experts around the nation, Facebook has installed a drop-down menu that
allows friends to tag and report a post that someone is talking about or considering suicide. the
friend that reported it will receive advice for how to help, and the person in distress will get a
notification from Facebook, offering help. guidance and immediate resources. as always, if you
or anyone you know needs help, call the number on your screen 800-273-8255.
B_Apr_Wash_48

KNDO (NBC)
Apr 11 • 8:00 PM
Deputies were called out to Tomlinson road in outlook Wednesday morning. the call.... for a
suicidal man and a shooting. they found 43-year-old Jose Guadalupe Rodriguez junior with a
gunshot wound. he later died at the hospital. his son, 19-year-old Benjamin Rodriguez, is now in
98

the Yakima county jail on domestic violence murder charges. now - an arrest in Oregon... nearly
a year after a Hermiston murder. Hermiston police say 19-year-old David Somerville is charged
with aggravated murder, felony murder and robbery. last June... police tell us, someone found
26- year-old Erik Navarrete shot in the head on west Hartley avenue... he died a few days later
at a hospital. police say as they continue to investigate. more people could face charges.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 11 • 8:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_136

In tonight's project safe family: suicide is the second leading cause among young people in
Oregon... and experts say it's a serious health problem that needs to be addressed. students at
sprague high school in Salem are now greeted by words of encouragement... after three
students died by suicide last year. ben McMann was just 14. he loved football, history and
cooking. and, his parents had no idea he was struggling. neither did Aaron brown's family. they
say he was a good kid, with lots of friends... who came from a good family. his dad says the loss
of his son proves anyone is vulnerable. 14:01:52 "he had two supportive parents, had a good
home life, was doing well in school, had lots of friends..":58 //stitch carol McMann 9:36:33 "ben
was amazing- he was always smiling- just lights up the room.":40 stitch Kyle McMann 9:39:37
"he was happy- he didn't lead on to any anxiety or depression or anything that we'd have said
let's intervene.": 45 both parents say we need to find ways to make sure our kids are talking to
us. and, remind them they'll get past the pressures of high school. the principal at the high
school says teens are especially vulnerable to suicide -- and while counseling and suicide
prevention programs are helping... we all need to watch for changes in behavior or mood... and
if something doesn't seem right, speak up. whether it's your child. a friend, family member or
co- worker. if you or someone you know needs help -- the national suicide prevention lifeline is
staffed 24 hours a day.... every day.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 11 • 8:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_137

Pete: as part of our better to get initiative, we are joining with news rooms across Oregon to
raise awareness about the state's suicide crisis. tonight, we want to introduce you to a police
officer who has been taken off patrol to focus full time on community outreach and prevention.
>> liz: as Kelsey watts shows us, the job is being called the first of its kind in Oregon. >>
reporter: dawn spent most of her career on patrol. these days she's taking on a new role, as the
first adult resource officers. >> I have had receptive responses from people I followed up with.
>> reporter: she's helping with suicide prevention, and domestic violence. following up on
referrals to check in with people who may need a little support. as far as the department
knows, she's the only officer in Oregon doing something like this. >> he with law enforcement
and first responders, we are not doing that follow-up. it's kind of just an extension of
community policing. and trying to take a proactive approach versus always being reactive. >>
reporter: the rate of suicide is Clackamas is higher than multnomah and Washington counties,
16% higher than the national average. that's according to 2015 data from the Oregon health
authority. they tell us that every person who dies from suicide, there are 25 people who
99

attempt it and live. part of her job is connecting with them, giving them hope and resources so
they can recover. >> suicide is a hard topic and hard subject to broach with people. some of it is
just that outreach, that connection, and asking people how they are doing. > reporter: another
piece of the puzzle is reaching out to loved ones, making sure they are supported, too. >> trying
to outreach to the families, are they taking care of themselves. those are the ones that get
forgotten sometimes. >> reporter: a revolutionary approach to prevention. >> it's exciting to be
the first person creating this and seeing where it goes. e: if you would like to learn more,
experts will be speaking on suicide prevention and warning signs at a free event held at the
library at 7:00 p.m. if you or someone you know needs help, we have a list of resources for you
at kptv.com.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 11 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr Oreg_138

>> reporter: Brenda, chief of student support services for Portland public schools says a big shift
district wide is training teachers, coaches, and students to ask the question. >> there's a myth
that if a student is thinking of suicide, that we shouldn't talk about it, and that's not the case at
all. we need to ask them. we need to ask them those questions, because it will open up the
conversation and it will help validate the students' feelings, and that's when you can actually
start providing some of that support and intervention for that student. >> reporter: Rodrigo is
so thankful dr. Hanson asked his daughter if she was okay. she's doing better. but it takes a
team to keep it that way. >> it doesn't have to be you in a dark corner faced with all these
challenges and overwhelmed. there are tools, simple techniques and strategies that can at least
aid you, and help you understand what you're going through. >> reporter: we're so glad she's
doing better. the difficult part here, this is working at Lincoln high school, but with budget cuts,
dr. Hanson won't be able to be full time next year. principal chapman says there is nothing
more important than keeping kids alive, and she's worried, sincerely worried about keeping this
work going without this person. >> the ceo of lines for life he said in his opinion, budget cuts
right now are unacceptable. we'll see what happens in the legislature. thank you, Kristin. >> the
national suicide prevention hotline is always available for children, teens, and adults. the youth
line number 877-968- 8491. you can find more information at Oregonyouthline.org. >> the
number for the national suicide prevention hotline is 800-873-8255. both are available 24 hours
a day, if you or someone you know needs to talk with a counselor.

B_Apr_Oreg_139

KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 11 • 9:42 PM
Deb: all week long we've been talking about the complicated relationship between bullying and
suicide as part of a statewide media partnership called break can the silence. bullying is a big
problem, and the cdc says it's also closely related to suicidal behavior. katu's genevieve reaume
100

shows us the damage bullying can do and why it's so important to teach your kids to stand up
for someone getting put down. >> genevieve: elsa nelson should be inside watching those
cartoons with her son. but she's got an important message to share. >> he's 8. it's not okay.
unacceptable. >> genevieve: she tells us her little boy tried to take his life at school. partly
because of relentless bullying. >> he's coming home telling me he's getting messed with and
when he fights back, you guys call me. if I tell him don't fight back, he's getting beat up. >>
danny: according to the cdc, there's no proof bullying causes suicide. >> a lot of times it can
lower self-esteem, anxiety, school avoidance. >> genevieve: dr. paine is explaining the impact
bullying has on the brain. he adds those feelings can grow with a child into adulthood. but
parents can try and combat that. >> focus on the positive. make sure they're building the
confidence of the children. making sure they're reminded of all the good things about them.
>> genevieve: you've got to ask your questions question kids questions and listen to their
concerns. only 20-30% of students who are bullied tell an adult. that's part of the reason elsa
wants to speak up, so she and other parents can continue to hug their little ones. >> if
somebody doesn't break the cycle or say something, or try to change something, it's going to
keep happening. >> genevieve: in addition to talking with your kids, it's also crucial to teach
them how to stand up to bullying. the cdc says if a bystander, someone witnessing the bullying
steps in to stop it, the bullying stops within 10 seconds, 57% of the time. in studio, genevieve
reaume, katu news. >> deb: elsa says her son is doing better. bullies have been laid off and he's
spending time with his new best friend. >> Lincoln: the national lifeline is a good number for
kids to have programmed into phones. 1-800-273-talk. experts there can help talk you through
whatever is going on. and connect you with local resources. >> deb: you can see all the stories
we've done and stories are competitors have done for breaking the silence on break can the
silence or.com. it's been a great collaboration, and one we've been very happy to be a part of.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 12 • 1:40 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_140

As part of our better forever initiative, we raise awareness about the state's suicide crisis.
tonight, we want to introduce you to an officer who has taken off patrol to work on outreach
and prevention. >> kelcey watts shows us this is called the first of its kind in Oregon. guerrero
spent most of her career on patrol. these days she's taking on a new role. first and only adult
resource officer. >> had very receptive responses from people that I followed up with. >> she's
helping with suicide prevention, substance abuse and member health and elder services and
domestic violence. following up on referrals to check in with people that may need support. as
far as the department knows she's the only officer in Oregon doing something like this. >> and
inherent with law enforcement and first responders, we're not doing that follow-up, so it is kind
of -- it is kind of just an extension of community policing and trying to take a proactive approach
versus always being reactive. >> the rate of suicide in the county is higher thanker 0 counties
and is 16 percent higher than the national average. that's according to 2015 data from the
Oregon health authority and the county suicide prevention coordinator who tells fox 12 for
every person that dies from suicide, there are 25 people who attempted and lived. part of
guerrero's job is connecting with them and giving them hope and resources so they can
recover. >> suicide in itself is a hard topic and a hard subject to broach with people and some of
101

it is just that outreach, that connection and asking people how near they're doing. she said
they're reaching out to loved ones in crisis and making sure they're supported. >> is there
anything they can do. they get forgotten sometimes. >> a revolutionary approach to prevention
and a local connection that could be a lifesaver. >> it is exciting to be the first person creating
this and seeing where it goes. >> kelcey watts, fox 12 Oregon. >> if you like to learn more,
experts will speak together on suicide prevention and warning signs at a free event. that's at
the lake os being we do library at seven a.m. we have a list of resources.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 12 • 2:10 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_141

Tonight, in our breaking the silence series in suicide prevention, we are taking a look at what
one Portland high school has done to help students. Lincoln high school started a special
behavior therapy class in 2007, at the time suicide was a leading cause of death among Lincoln
students. teens learn to self-regulate their emotions, and parents meet once a month to learn
how to best support their kids. the chief of students support services for Portland public schools
says of big shift districtwide is training coaches, teachers and other students to ask the
question. >> there is a myth that if a student is thinking of suicide, that we shouldn't talk about
it. that's not the case at all. we need to ask them, we need to ask those questions because it will
open up a conversation, and it will help validate the student’s feelings. that's when you can
actually start providing some of that support and intervention for that student. >> Lincoln high
hasn't had a student I suicide since the program started. you can watch the full report and all
the other stories by media outlets this week in an effort to shine the light on this very difficult
subject, we've posted them all on our website, breaking the silence or.com.>> and that suicide
prevention hotline is always available for children and adults. you can find more information at
Oregon youth line.org, and that number for the prevention hotline is also on your screen right
now, 1-800-273-8255. both are available 24 hours a day, if you or someone you know who to
talk with a counselor.
KREM (CBS)
Apr 12 • 2:22 AM

B_Apr_Wash_49

Sergeant Jim novak is attempting to walk more than five million steps from Washington to
Florida. the reason? to raise money and awareness for suicide prevention. Novak says he hid his
depression for years before opening up. now, he is using his platform to spread a message to
his fellow service members. your life matters. you are important. you are loved...butt...there is
no shame in reaching out. nobody is going to think less of you for seeking help it took the army
vet about two weeks to walk across the state of Washington. he tries to walk 22 miles each day.
you can follow novak's journey on Facebook. just look up j-l Novak.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 12 • 5:48 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_142

102

Often family members missed the signs that someone is suffering true be damaging clinical
depression so could opt official intelligent transformed mental health care Ai can help doctors
assessed patients at risk of suicide by picking out my new changes in facial expressions and
language a team from Columbia University and a restive Pittsburgh is conducting a clinical trial
to Mont adolescents with mental health problems using that Mo bile phones we can speak to
randy are about who's part of that team associate professor in the Department of psychiatry at
Columbia University thanks for joining us Yeah on Wells update I guess this is an apt is it a
professor sued it's a smart phone app installed on to adolescence phones what is essentially
doing is is scraping data with explicit pushing consent from the families and what we're able to
do is gather data around specific features things around and personal loss veterans sleep and
emotional distress were able to extract out those features data from people which allows us to
provide some windows insight into potential patterns a suicide risk so this is not simply
monitoring those sites that ban on it in case they're all those that seemed to encourage suicidal
thoughts it's much more than that it is it is quite a bit more than that actually Unfortunately in
the mental health realm we're we've become very core actually predicting when an individual
going to hurt themselves and although we've made considerable strides in identifying what
factors may be important there is this divide in the sense of know what factors are important
how much does that inform when is somebody going to make this a suicide attempt and but I
ain't know gathering data in real time male allows us to better understand this escalation in
transition from thinking about suicide to attempting to set the and pickup on the road parent
my to them and then what would happen so there's two separate things so you might keep my
pick up on a variety of different features things like sentimental language so what are the types
of words that they're typing it could be explosive words things are related specifically to suicide
but it might just be changes that affect we could use Geely's Haitian patterns to determine
when an individual starts to isolate themselves but it's not these punk T one-off changes it's
really looking at real time very nations over the course of the anywhere from seconds two
minutes two weeks to months and what we're really trying to focus on are these very this
cream changes in patterns different features a data network track think and when might this be
it in full in use available to I think the word of presently pretty far from this being used and
readily available we have an initial study it's funded through the National Institute of mental
health and really sees one was spent trying to build a proof of concept Albert than kenley
actually predict when an individual is going to hurt themselves but it's not just predicting when
an individual is going to make this is a tent I think far more useful prediction model allows us to
better understand when someone is leading to an end to one territory which there are at risk
so could be the escalation of self-harm behaviors are risk-taking behaviors because I don't think
we want to just have an outing that lets us know the minutes or seconds before someone
makes a citizen we want to grow the tent considerably before that as well kind of back thank
you.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 12 • 7:35 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_143

Ken: every day this week, we have been telling you how we, as well as our media outlets in
Oregon, are changing the way we report on suicide in an effort to help address this public
103

health emergency. it's part of a statewide effort called breaking the silence. jenny: that is right.
we're changing our coverage from suicide to suicide prevention. elise haas is here to explain
how this new way of reporting will bring an end to suicide contagion and start a new positive
path. elise: ken and jenny, the media in Oregon has never talked about suicide so openly until
now, because what we've learned is that the silent treatment doesn't work but responsible
reporting does. as journalists, we've stayed silent for so long because we worried about the
werther effect, more popularly known as the copy-cat effect or contagion. suicide prevention
experts explain that evidence suggests that sensationalized attention or negative language
associated with suicide could trigger more. >> by contrast, when we tell stories of hope and
recovery, when we tell stories about suicide prevention, that those stories can actually
decrease suicide rates, can actually make communities safer. that's the papageno effect. elise:
the papageno effect is named after a character in Mozart’s opera "the magic flute." papageno is
a lovesick character who thinks about suicide, but three friends uplift him and save him by
reminding him of better alternatives. I have talked a lot this week about how social connection
is important, how friends are in the best position to save a life, and that is why it has been our
goal to share this information, as well as share resources like the suicide prevention lifeline, a
24/7 crisis line, which has helped tens of thousands of Oregonians get on the road to recovery.
and the media's ability to share the papageno effects of help, hope, and healing is real, and we
will continue to do so.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 12 • 8:34 AM

B_Apr_Wash_50

In pierce county - new sis have gone up on the Tacoma narrows bridge to help prevent suicide
attempts. kiro 7's patranya bhoolsuwan is live in Tacoma. Those behind this effort are now
pushing for even more changes. drivers, bikers, and pedestrians who commute on this bridge
every day - can now see these signs posted - with the message to stop, think and get help. the
gigarbor & key peninsula suicide prevention coalition has been pushing toet the signs up for
over a year. the group's coordinator, bob anderson, lost hison to suicide 20 years ago. he is now
also pushi to get netting and barriers on the bridge as well - and he said it shouldn't just be
done here in pierce county. The coalition also goes out and talk to students throughout the year
at local schools to address this problem. this as a new nationwide study shows the number of er
visits by kids and teens in the us s doubled in less than 10 years. 9 people have died by jumping
off the narrows bridge since 2014.coming up in the next hour - how social media pls a role in
increasing the suicide risks - especially for high school senior in this part of pierce county.

KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 12 • 8:36 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_144

As part of our better together initiative---- we're joining newsrooms across Oregon to raise
awareness about the state's suicide crisis. today -- we want to introduce you to a lake Oswego
police officer who has been taken off patrol to focus full-time on community outreach and
104

prevention. as fox 12's Kelsey watts shows us -- the job is being called the first of its kind in
Oregon. nats at deskdawn pecoraro has spent most of her police career out on patrol days she's
taking on a new role as lake Oswego’s first and only adult resource officer.07:13 "I’ve positive
responses from people I’ve followed up with." she's helping with suicide prevention, substance
abuse, mental health, elder adult services and domestic violence following up on referrals from
her colleagues to check in with people who may need a little support.as far as the department
knows she's the only officer in Oregon doing something like this.(dawn pecoraro/adult resource
officer, lake Oswego police department) 06:39 "inherently with law enforcement and first
responders, we're not doing that follow up so it's kind of just an extension of community
policing and trying to take a proactive approach rather than always being reactive."(full screen)
the rate of suicide in Clackamas county is higher than in multnomah or Washington counties
16% higher than the national average. That's according to 2015 data from the Oregon health
authority and the Clackamas county suicide prevention coordinator who tells fox 12 that for
every person who dies from suicide there are 25 people who attempt it and live.part of
pecoraro's job is connecting with them giving them hope and resources so they can recover.
(dawn pecoraro/adult resource officer, lake Oswego police department) 02:47 "suicide in itself
is a hard topic and a hard subject to broach with people, so some of it is that outreach, that
connection, and asking people how they're doing. "she says another piece of the puzzle is
reaching out to the loved ones around someone who is in crisis making sure they're supported
too.(dawn pecoraro/adult resource officer, lake oswego police department) 06:31 "just trying
to outreach to the families, how are they coping with it, are they trying to take care of
themselves, is there anything they can do because I think those are the ones that get forgotten
sometimes. "a revolutionary approach to prevention -- and a local connection that could be a
life saver.11:35 "it's really exciting to be the first person kind of creating this and seeing where
it goes." in lake Oswego, kw, fox 12 Oregon. if you'd like to learn more---- experts will be
speaking together on suicide prevention and warning signs at a free event. it will be at the lake
Oswego library on May second at 7 p-m. if you or someone you know needs help--- we have a
list of resources for you at kptv dot com slash better together.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 12 • 9:13 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_145

In today's kind is better we examine the complicated relationship between bullying and suicide.
>>> this is part of a statewide media partnership in Oregon called breaking the silence. the
centers for disease control says even though there's no proof that bullying causes suicide the
two are closely related. victims of bullying often internalize their feelings. psychologist dr. tyson
payne says those feelings can grow with the child into adulthood. but parents can fight that by
showing them love. >> focus on the positive. make sure they're building the confidence of the
children. makings sure they're reminded of all the good things awe them. >> the cdc says only
20 to 30 students who are bullied tell an adult. in addition to talking with your kids, experts say
it's crucial to teach them to stand up to bullying. in a bystander intervenes the bullying stops.
>>> the national lifeline is a good resource for anyone. it's 1-800 273-talk. experts there can talk
you through whatever is going on and connect you with local resource. >>> and you can see the
stories and others have done on breaking the silence on breaking the silence.com
105

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 12 • 9:36 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_146

jenny: all week, we've been bringing you stories and information about suicide prevention. it's
part of a state-wide effort to change the discussion and break the silence. ken: experts explain
that suicide is far from simple. elise haas is here to share how substance abuse and depression
are top pieces to suicide. kohr: one of the most death -- elise: what of the most important
things is suicide has been desperate so long. experts at serenity lanes, a drug and alcohol
treatment service explain substance abuse and depression can be intertwined but by asking for
help, people can learn positive ways to cope. one successful aspect of getting into drug and
alcohol treatment is group therapy, where you can share your recovery story with people like
you. >> that is one reason we work in groups. people in the groups start hearing each other and
realize they are not the only one going through this. some people start to open up. elise:
specialists encourage people to reach out beyond their small group sessions and built family
and community support. people can and to recover. outpatient service manager steve harris
says he is surrounded by success stories. >>g elise: when families get involved, not only do they
become a great support system, members realize they are not a learn -- alone in this journey
either. jenny: our effort to shine a light on suicide crisis has a you can find more resources,
home. contact organizations and all of our coverage and d-link our media partners put
together.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 12 • 10:30 AM

B_Apr_Wash_51

says he'll soon be seeing new suicide Prevention signs they say stop think and get help that's
the goal for that gig Harbor a key couldn't Les suicide Prevention coalition that has been
working for years to get these signs up now the group's coordinator Rob Anderson lost his son
to suicide 20 years ago and is now also pushing to get netting and barriers on the bridge as well
he said it shouldn't just be done here in Pierce County our goal now is to begin getting the
governor and the legislature would be putting money in for suicide Prevention as part of the
D.O.T. budget since 2014 9 people have died by jumping off the narrows Bridge.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 12 • 10:32 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_147

As part of our better together initiative, we're raising awareness about the state's suicide crisis.
we wanted to introduce you to a lake oswego officer who is focusing full-time on community
outreach and prevention. the job is being called the first of its time in Oregon. >> reporter:
dawn has spent most of her career out on patrol, but these days she is lake oswego's first and
only resource officer. she is helping with suicide prevention, substance abuse, mental health,
elder adult services, and domestic violence. following up on referrals from her colleagues to
check in with people. as far as the department knows, she is the only officer in Oregon doing
something like this. >> and inherently with law enforcement and first reondering, we're not
106

doing that follow up, so it's kind of just an extension of community policing, and trying to take a
proactive approach, versus always being reactive. >> reporter: the rate ofs is higher here and is
16% higher than the national avenue wraj according to the Oregon health authority who tells
fox 12 for every person who dies from suicide, there are 25 people who attempt it and live. part
of her job is connecting with them, giving them hope and resources so they can recover. >>
suicide itself is a hard topic, and so some of it is just that outreach, that connection in asking
people how they are doing. >> reporter: she says another peez of the puzzle is reaching out to
the loved ones, making sure they are supported too. >> how are the families coping? is there
anything they can do? because I think those are the ones that kind of get forgotten sometimes.
>> reporter: a revolutionary approach to prevention and a local connection that could be a
lifesaver. >> it's exciting to be the first person creating this and seeing where it goes. >>> if you
would like to learn more, experts will be speaking together on prevention and warning signs at
a free event. and we have a list of resources for you at kptv.com/bettertogether.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 12 • 3:03 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_148

two of Oregon’s congressman sat down with county leaders to talk about mental health and
suicide. it is an issue that newsrooms across the state have been talking about this week. the
senators say they want to make it easier for people to get help. >> reporter: they're pushing for
a three-digit mental health hotline. in Oregon, suicide is described as a community health crisis.
and our suicide rate is higher than the national average. the Oregon state leaders are looking
the what they can do to get the help they wanted. senators came together with the county
leaders and advocates. the discussion is around the importance of protecting mental health
funding county and nationwide. there is a concern that funding could be scaled back are in the
conction ministration. they are pushing the fcc to develop a three-digit hotline to help them
with a mental health crisis. >> what we need in Oregon is one true lifeline just for reaching out
and preventing suicide. if suffering there, is health. >> we all matter. we're all worth it. >>
county leaders said they recently bought a property in southwest portland that will help people
with mental health issues. it is still in the very beginning stages. before we go, because we know
so many of you and/or loved ones are dealing with mental health issues, we want to give you a
couple of resources. so grab a pen and paper and jot this down. first is the phone number for
the national suicide prevention lifeline. young people the number to the Oregon youth lynn
(877)968- 8491. so definitely a lot of ways for you or your loved ones to get help. >> absolutely.
thank you.

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 12 • 3:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_149

Jenny: it's already been a busy spring on capitol hill. and this afternoon, we're getting updates
on some of the hot topics. ken: Oregon senator Ron Wyden joins us to fill us in on some of
those developments. all week, we've been talking about suicide and suicide prevention. I
107

understand you are doing some work in Washington with that. sen. Wyden: I am, and I’m so
pleased that we are now focused on breaking the silence. today, I broke a little bit of the silence
about the Wyden household. my brother was a schizophrenic. every night for years on end, we
were afraid that he would hurt himself or someone else. when I was away at college, I got a call
from my mom that my brother had cut his wrists very deeply. back then, you didn't know as
much about the topic, we didn't know if it was just a plea for help, or if he was trying to commit
suicide, both very serious. in my household, this is so important, and that is why we are doing
two things. first, I proposed to the fcc a three-digit number to make it clear once and for all,
there is one place where there is a true lifeline for getting help, where there is a priority for
getting help to those folks. then as the senior democrat on the finance committee, I’m trying to
protect Medicaid, which is the main way we fund mental health services for the poor.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 12 • 3:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_150

this week we have been part of name very unusual media collaboration several dozen news
organizations from across organ we put aside competition this week for pressure recalling
breaking the silence is an attempt to focus coverage across every platform you can imagine
you're on the radio and newspapers TV all over the state on a double by suicide the public
health crisis of death by suicide traditional news organizations we haven't we really not talked
about suicide because there's this sense the sort of contagion effect if you talk about it might
encourage someone who was going through a rough period to think about it more seriously
than they had before what the research tells us now is that if we're doing responsible deep
coverage that point people to research and also shows that the vast majority of people who
who do attempt take their own lives if they survive they get the help they need and never
enough position again we can do a lot of good so were ordered its it is an unusual collaboration
I’m really proud that we're part of that it's a good time to actually mention that this is a
mention life number once again I was at a time this week and probably can't say too much 100
to 7 3 talk that's 100 to 7.8 to 5 5 Anna Lisa Julie thanks very much.
News Radio KEX
Apr 12 • 5:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_151

The governor wants 100 million dollars at the opportunity grant program and 70 million $ for
community colleges suicide prevention start with talking to someone you know who might be
considering suicide Oregon senator ron wyden says it is important to eliminate stigma against
asking someone they're considering suing a great deal of violence around suicide demands
speaking loud white wants the fcc to create a three-digit number that would connect people
who sign prevention counseling Oregon lines for life provides counseling over the phone to
people considering suicide and specialize in offering support to veterans and young people
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 12 • 7:08 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_152

108

today Oregon centers senators ron and we sat down with county leaders to talk about mental
health and suicide. it is an issue it kgw8 and newsrooms across the state have been highlighting
this week as part of the break the silence campaign. as kgw's christine pitawanich's reports,
they want to make it easier for people to get help .
>> they are pushing for a three-digit mental health hotline similar to what we have got with say,
911. and here in Oregon, it has been described as a public health issue. or than 800 Oregonians
die from suicide every single year. and our suicide rate is higher than the national average. so
today, both county and state leaders are looking at what they can do to get people the help
they need. today eunice senators ron wyden and jeff mark we came together with multnomah
county leaders and advocates. the discussion about the importance of protecting mental health
funding both in the county and nationwide. there is concern that the funding could be scaled
back into the current administration. senator wyatt and is pushing the fcc to develop a threedigit hotline dedicated to suicide prevention and helping people with a mental health crisis. >>
what we need in Oregon is one true lifeline just for reaching out and preventing suicide. >> if
you are suffering, there is . >> the truth is, we all matter. we are all worth it. >> county leaders
say they have recently brought a property in southwest Portland that will be dedicated to
helping people with mental health issues. the details are still unclear, since it is still in the very
beginning stages. but before we go because we know so many of you and or your loved ones
are dealing with mental health issues, we wanted to give you a couple of resources so grab a
pen and paper or maybe your phone and take this down. the first number we want to give you
is for the national suicide prevention lifeline. that is 1-800-273-8255. for young people, the
number to the Oregon use line is 1877 968- 8491. so those just two of the many ways you or
your loved ones can get the help you need. here in northwest Portland, christine pitawanich,
kgw news. >>> a new brick high school senior wants to help those in her small community learn
more about how to prevent suicide. it is a topic not often discussed but one she has a personal
connection with. David haskins joins us live. this is part of her senior project. >> reporter: is
right, michaela friday wants to be a graphic designer. her senior project, she is designing
stickers and flyers about a 5k walk and run she is organizing. it will benefit the American
foundation for suicide prevention. the topic for suicide is personal for Michaela because in the
last eight years she has lost her biological dad, a friend, a neighbor, and her mom's childhood
friend, the project is to help break the silence about suicide. to get people to understand that it
is okay to talk about it. >> just talking with someone about lost people close to their lives really
helps. and I know from experience because I talked to many people. I talked to my neighbor
who lost her husband and I was like this I was crying so bad. but I think for the both of us it
really helped to talk about it. and have a sila experience. >> they 5k walk is saturday, May 4,
starts at 1015 in the morning at newburgh high school. it is free to sign up and any money
donated go towards the American foundation for suicide prevention. back to you. >> thank you
for that. if you are a loved one are struggling there is always help available. those two numbers
are back on your screen including one specifically for use. you can call anytime, 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 12 • 7:08 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_153

109

All week long we've been shining a light on the state's suicide crisis as part of a statewide
initiative called break can the silence. >> deb: senator wyden woe explained why this initiative
is so important to him. >> many people know that my brother was a schizophrenic, for years
and years not a night went by when we weren't worried that he was going to hurt himself or
someone else. >> deb: wyden says his brother had attempted to you side and that's when he
decided to do everything he could to advocate for mental health funding. senator jeff merkley
says the time is now to act. >> great fear that talking about suicide would lead more people to
consider suicide. but that silence hasn't worked. >> deb: both senators are working on
legislation time prove and fund mental health treatment, including creating a dedicated threedigit hotline to address mental health crises. >>> all week we've been bringing you stories that
shine a light on the state's suicide crisis as part of a state-wide media project. you can see them
all, including katu's special on bullying and suicide online at breakingthesilenceor.com. that's
where you'll find the other stories other media outlets have done.
KFXO (FOX)
Apr 12 • 7:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_154

Two of Oregon’s lawmakers sat-down with county leaders to talk about mental health and
suicide. it's an issue we've been highlighting, along with 29 other newsrooms in Oregon this
week, as part of the "break t silence" campaign. senators ro wyden and jeff merkl pushed for a
3-digit mental health hotline similar to the '9-1-1' emergency number a the new multnomah
county healt building in Portland today. each year, more than 8-hundred Oregonians die by
suicide...and our state's rate of suicide is higher than the national average ### you can find
several central Oregon resources for those struggling with thoughts of suicide or other mental
health issues on our website just click 'let's talk' under the community tab at ktvz.com
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 12 • 7:21 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_155

All this week KOPB and other newsrooms in Oregon have been highlighting the public health
crisis of death by suicide it's a project called breaking the silence it turns out even providers to
work with vulnerable populations people impacted by homelessness addiction and poverty
even these providers have to learn how to talk about suicide piece kate davidson spoke with
Libya birth allow about that process she works with central city concern in Portland which
provides a range of services from health care to a House in your special he is the intersection of
addiction and mental health what have you observed about the rule of addiction when it comes
to the risk of suicide I often help providers that when you're doing an addiction work you're
doing suicide work addictions and suicidal experiences are so common and so intertwined and
there's kind of a couple things that allow those two body of work to rise together I think most
importantly is thinking about the ways in which the disease of addiction really engenders an
experience of hopelessness inexperience of lack of control and what we know about suicide is
often people don't have experience they want to be dead they have experiences they no longer
want to suffer they no longer want to be in pain so many suicide comes up and social city
110

concerned in might come up with a primary care physician or and housing appointment how
have you talked to providers about how to talk about suicide with photo Poh claims one of the
primary things they do is actually helping providers to self-regulate themselves when the topic
of suicide comes up so for example if you have a primary care provider who has a 15 minute
equipment for the patient and the patient mentions they're feeling hopeless or suicidal the
provider immediately feels anxious that anxiety intern shuts down our ability to think clearly to
be present with the other person in the room and so the both of my work is really teaching
providers how to manage their own anxiety and their own discomfort around the topic of
course we do a lot of training about logistics had actually speaks aware good sweat makes
people higher-risk corner or lower risk but the Bulls could it is how to be present with people
you know part of that idea behind this project breaking the silence is changing the way that the
media talks about of suicide moving away from a tendency to shy away from the subject for
fear of contagion effect to talking about responsibly how these Sino having worked to create a
shift in the way that health care providers talk about suicide. Yeah I’m recently there's been a
sort of national initiative called 0 suicide and we've implemented their suicide in the primary
care clinic at central city concerned thank you just described quickly what years is that is Yeah
Here's suicide more than anything it's a paradigm shift that says suicide when someone's and
engaged in health care is never acceptable which is a big shift especially in the behavioral
health world historically we have sort of said well it's inevitable we'll do everything we can but
it's inevitable and we haven't necessarily engendered system that tries to prevent suicide at a
cost and so one of the things we did is we started thinking about suicide screening just as if it
was any other baseline vital and health care so I asked about suicide and take your blood
pressure on and when you check your blood glucose we're screening for suicide at almost every
primary care visit was just checked in when we don’t historically hink about changing the
paradigm in how we talk about suicide I there are misconceptions a parent you see about
suicide that you would like to change so I think one of the misconceptions about suicide is that
once people have made up their mind they've made up their mind there's nothing you can do
about it which again is what the service was a paradigm has to push back on that and I think
what we know about suicide and the experience of suicide now is that it's often deeply
ambivalent and people who want to vote in their life don't usually want to experience death
they want and not be in pain and when people are feeling suicidal and there is a way to break
that spell early to interrupt the experience people later her part that they are glad that they
weren't alone and that was an interruption that was lydia bar Hello speaking with the PP's kate
davidson marshmallow is the medical director for behavioral health of the black spring Center
in port Under which is part of central city concern if you or someone you know is contemplating
suicide call for help now National suicide Prevention hotline is answered by trained staff 24
hours per day the number is 802.3
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 12 • 7:31 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_156

Dan: for months now, koin 6 has been part of a statewide media effort to change the way
report on sisi were -- on suicide. Jennifer h: while the word suicide has long been taboo in news
reporting, we've been explaining all week why that needs to change. and, one point makes it
111

clear why. heelell stories of hope and recovery, about suicide prevention, those errors can
actually decrease was that and make communities safer bash of those stories can make
communities safer. dan: we have been proud to play a role in this effort and it is going to
continue well into the future. if you want to hear much more about why this effort is so
important, download and listen to our breaking the silence, shining a light on suicide podcast. it
is available right now on koin.com, apple podcasts, google play and wherever you get your
favorite podcasts.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 12 • 7:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_52

the family of a 16 year-old boy who died from a fall off pure al bridge is asking the court to
intervene on his official death certificate michael gash petition the pierce county superior court
judge this week to review the county's medical examiner's determination that his son jordan
guess died by suicide the family says the boy was playing on the bridge with a friend and his
death was an accident they also say the suicide ruling is affecting benefit claims in a statement
a pierce county spokeswoman said the review process it can be difficult for loved ones
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 12 • 8:07 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_157

Reporter: >>> Oregon senators ron wyden and jeff merkley talked with county leaders about
mental health and suicide. this is an issue that kgw and newsrooms across Oregon have been
highlighting this week as part of the break the silence campaign. the senators want to make it
easier for people to get help. they are pushing for a three-digit mental health hotline similar to
911. >> 911 is very helpful. but 911 is not the same thing as we hear. it is not the same thing as
a dedicated line to help people when moments, literally moments, can make a big difference. in
terms of saving somebody's life. >> county leaders say the reason they recently bought some
property in south Portland that will be dedicated to helping people with mental health issues.
there is help available always right now if you or someone you know needs help. you can see
the numbers for the national suicide prevention lifeline on your screen. there is also a separate
number for the Oregon youth line. we have more information about that on kgw.com.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 12 • 8:15 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_158

two of Oregon’s congressman want to make it easier for people with mental health problems to
get help. they sat down with county leaders today in Portland to talk about mental health and
suicide. senator wyden is pushing the f-c-c to develop a three-digit mental health hotline -- like
what we have with 9-1-1 -- dedicated to helping people in crisis. what we need in Oregon is one
true lifeline just for reaching out and preventing suicide if you are suffering there is help. the
truth is that we all matter. we're all worth it. every year -- more than 800 Oregonians die some
teens are hoping to break down the stigma surrounding suicide and mental health. in tonight's
project safe family: "youth line" out of Portland, is one of just six teen to teen support lines in
112

the world. volunteers talk to people over the phone.. chat.. text.. or e-mail... helping with
everything from suicidal thoughts to mental illness. relationships. sexual abuse... or just a bad
day. zakia elazami, volunteer we are currently in this environment and living some of these
experiences so I think we can provide a le relatability that some adults can't. stitch gabrielle
paisner, volunteer let people know they're not alone that can ultimately be life saving stitch
youth line outreach specialist parker sczepanik these youth are feeling empowered to contact
somebody and actually talk about what's going on for them which is part of that process teens
go through extensive training to do this work.. and volunteer three-and-a-half hours each week.
if you're a teen wanting help from a peer -- they're open from four in the afternoon until ten at
night. you can also see the number for the national suicide prevention lifeline which is staffed
24 hours a day.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 12 • 8:43 PM

B_Apr_Wash_53

In pierce county nearly two dozen of these signs are posted along the Tacoma narrow bridge to
prevent people from taking their own lives. those behind the effort pushing for even more
changes as the ri for suicide is on the rise. >> r me the love I have for my son didn't die with
him? bob Anderson’s son took his own life 20 users go. he's now on a mission aim at preventing
more suicides. the signs offer a message of hope on the Tacoma narrows bridge where nine
people died jumping off in the last five years. >> the signs can caus people to pause and that is
the goal the -- it serves a purpose. > a big shock at the time. >> Anderson is part of the gig
harbor & key peninsula suicide prevention coalition. their next goal, getting the state. the
budget more money to put in netting or rriers on bridges lik this one. >> fit helps one, that's
changing the world. >> kat t peninsula school district. she said the latest numbers showed 25%
of high school seniors in the school district have serious it will seriously be considered suicide in
the past year. >> there is so much essure on our kids. >> the coalition is also working to put the
signs up in other public places throughout the pierce county. a reminder totop, think and get
help. >> I mentione talk saves lives but also time saves lives. >> coming up on april 17th the
coalition is bringing back a man who survived a jump from the golden bridge to speak. back to
you.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 12 • 8:52 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_159

for months, koin six has been part of a state-wide media effort to change the way we report on
suicide. and one point makes it clear why. >> when we tell stories about hope and recovery.
when we tell stories about suicide prevention, those stories can actually decrease suicide rates
and make communities safer. jeff: we have been proud to play a role in this effort, and it is
going to continue well into the future. if you want to hear much more about why this effort is
so important, download and listen to our breaking the silence, shining a light on suicide
podcast. it is available right now on koin.com, apple podcasts, google play and wherever you
get your favorite podcasts. while today brings an end to our week of breaking the silence on
suicide, it is the first day of changing how we are reporting on the public health emergency.
113

jennifer: elise haas sits down with a portland man who was once suicidal and is now a survivor.
>> we feel low. elise: steve harris grew up here in portland living a comfortable life. he doesn't
have a dramatic background. he says this is the case for a lot of people with addiction. he
started drinking and smoking weed in high school. >> as time went on that became my focus.
elise: to the outside world, steve was doing just fine. but eventually life became unmanageable.
>> and my drinking became where I couldn't control it. elise he'd gone to get : treatment, but
didn't apply the positive coping skills. and one, night he found himself, alone in a park drinking
a six pack. >> and I realized, I cannot not drink. elise that was the night : he thought of suicide.
he wrote a note, but his wife found it and called for help. days later, steve checked into an inpatient treatment center. he sobered up, but it cost him his marriage. he stayed sober for
nearly two years, but he wasn't practicing what he'd learned in treatment. he drank again.
thoughts of suicide came back. >> I don't really remember all of it because I was intoxicated,
but I remember picking up the phone and starting to call places. elise the next morning, Steve :
went to a support meeting. then another one that afternoon. >> and I did something that really
changed everything, I went up to someone and said I drank last night and I don't know what to
do. elise he asked for help and met : his new mentors. >> they talked to me and I listened to
them and they knew what they were talking about. that there was hope. elise they told him
doing a few : simple things every day, like making his bed would lead to change. >> but I sleep
in a sleeping bag, they said, straighten out your sleeping bag. elise to this day, he steve : still
does those little things to remind himself of his he reads a couple of daily recovery. passages.
he puts a coin in his pocket to hold, and he makes his bed. today, he has a lovely home with his
wife of more than twenty years. >> I am happy, I am sober, and that I can get through whatever
happens today. and most days are really good. jennifer steve says he has : the life he has today
because of the mentors he met back in 1989. they told him to pay it forward. that's why he is
sharing his recovery story with you. to read more about his full journey, head to koin.com
KNDO (NBC)
Apr 12 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_54

the Washington house approved a bill involving behavior health and gun rights.... backers of
this bill say it will help prevent suicides.... the bill places a six month hold on a person's right to
buy a gun... after they have been detained for 72 hours under the state involuntary treatment
act. that act determines whether a person with a mental health disorder is likely to harm
themselves... other people... or someone else's property. the bill would restore a person's right
to a gun automatically after six months. that person would also get their confiscated guns back
as well as license to carry. we know that after these 72-hour holds that the risk of suicide is
extraordinarily high.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 12 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_160

He says eventually, his brother had attempted suicide, and that is when he decided to do
everything he could, to advocate for his brother, and for mental health funding, senator
merkley says the time is now, to take effective action. >> great fear that talking about suicide
114

would lead more people to consider suicide. but that silence hasn't worked. >> both senators
are working on legislation to improve and fund mental health treatment, including a three-digit
hotline, dedicated to mental health crises and suicide prevention. >> as we near the end of the
breaking the silence coverage for suicide awareness, news 10's, mike, met with police and
options for southern Oregon to talk about their partnership and what both agencies take
working together. >> grants pass public safety and options for southern Oregon have been
working together for years. >> we have looked at some of the situations, and how can we be
the least intrusive to a person and get them the help they need? >> police officers train
regularly with options on a variety of mental health topics. >> we bring in a variety of experts.
and people with experiences, to really talk about what it is like to have mental health issues,
what the officers need to know on the streets. >> we are starting to learn more about the
issues that are creating the problems, and by helping have a more proactive approach, we can
help get people treatment, and maybe stop further problems from occurring. >> officers have
noticed a difference in the responses after these trainings. >> training everybody the same way
doesn't work. we need to have a better understanding of the needs of different people, and
help get them through whatever issue they have. >> options that say it is important for law
enforcement officers to have mental health in the back of their minds, when responding. >>
this is just really turning things around, and training each other, and ways that we have not
historically been trained in our professions. and learning, that we are partners, and helping
people. >> it has helped me kind of recognize some past calls. >> nothing too extravagant,
usually it is pretty obvious when it presents itself in a big call, but it has helped me to realize
that maybe there were some things in the past that we could do better. >> since the beginning
of the partnership, options has noticed an increase in people asking for help with mental
health. >> carla sees it as a good thing. >> we are literally sitting down for police and the mental
health staff, and this person, and the courts, together, and talking with this person about how
can we get you the help you need, what do you need, what are you struggling with? >>
reporter: she says she does not notice a difference in the number of suicide calls, but generally
has seen all types of mental health calls go up. grants pass police have not really noticed too
much of a difference but are now more equipped to help than ever before. >> this is only going
to improve the way law enforcement conducts business here, and we are just going to keep
pushing forward. >> the constant and regular interface that we have now, develops that daily
trust, that help support these programs, that we are doing. >> reporter: reporting for breaking
the silence, I am mike. >> if you or someone you know is suffering from mental health concerns
or having suicidal thoughts, don't hesitate to call the numbers on your screen. the national
suicide hotline, and the Jackson county health line. for more breaking the silent stories, head to
our website, ktvl.com.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 12 • 9:08 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_161

Suicide awareness is an issue that kgw and newsrooms across the state have been highlighting
this week. as part of a campaign called breaking the silence. katie w's devon haskins sat down
with the new burke high school senior organizing a 5k walk run to support suicide awareness

115

and as part of her senior project. >> when you live in the community with over 23,000, you are
not alone. but for some, it can feel like a population of only one. >> and someone struggles with
it. they never speak up about it. >> reporter: new burke high senior michaela friday wants to
break that silence. >> I want people to feel comfortable talking about it and sharing their stories
without feeling like it is something they have to hide. >> her senior project focusing on suicide
awareness. something very personal to her. >> I lost my biological dad to suicide. and my
summer after my freshman year of high school, I lost a friend to suicide as well. >> four years
ago, her mom's best friend, Jennifer martinsville, an assistant softball coach and can become
also died. >> it was hard, seeing her hurt, that is me. >> reporter: last year, her neighbor's
husband Alex. >> who I talked to my neighbor who lost her husband and I was like this I was
crying so bad. but I think for the both of us it really helped to talk about it and to have a similar
experience. >> one thing she did not want to discuss but she did give me permission to talk
about was her own personal struggles with suicide. in the seventh grade she talked about
taking her own life after being bullied by a friend in school. instead, she talked to a counselor
and sought help. it is another reason why her senior project focuses on the stigma about
keeping silent. and walking beside her and helping her keep focus, is for mentor and family
friend, tracy cruz. >> michaela is the type of person that wants to really help. if it is an
individual, a group of people, or a community, she wants to reach out and show resources, she
wants to educate. above all, she wants people to be talking about this. >> reporter: the 5k run
is Tuesday, may 4 at new burke high school. it is free to register and run. all money donated will
support the American foundation for suicide prevention. in newburgh, devon haskins, kgw
news. >>> if you or somebody you know needs to talk, this is the number to the national suicide
prevention lifeline. you can also find it on our website, there will always be somebody there to
pick up the other line.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 12 • 9:16 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_162

Deb: all week we've been breaking the silence with other media outlets about Oregon’s suicide
crisis. >> Lincoln: children deal with all kinds of stress we never had to deal with. most of that is
thanks to the online world. the connected world. bullying more specifically, cyberbullying looks
much different than how we experienced it. the numbers are pretty astowppedding when you
think about them. >> 62.2% of twins tweens experience cyberbullying, as a bully, victim or
witness. >> Lincoln: she works for bark, an app that alerts parents to dangers in their kids'
online world. cyberbullying is just one danger. and it's more sinister than ever. >> anonymity
enables teasing without confrontation. >> Lincoln: with the world accessible by phone,
something kids are glued to, there's no escape. >> it's one I’ve heard directly from teenagers, is
that it follows me everywhere. >> Lincoln: bullying has always existed. and it doesn't
permanently impact most kids. but for those already dealing with mental health issues, it can
be a tipping point. >> suicide is now the second leading cause of death in children under the
able of 18. rates have skyrocketed over the past decade. >> Lincoln: if not suicide, then other
forms of self-harm. like cutting. >> we have ke texted over 10,000 severe self-harm situations
cutting is an epidemic. >> Lincoln: according to bark's own data, nearly 32% of tweens and 46%
of teens had conversations about depression and/or anxiety. and about 23% of tweens and 36%
116

of teens were involved with a self-harm or suicidal situation. >> this is real. this is really
happening. this isn't just a story to pique your interest and keep you watching and -- this isn't
click bait. this is a problem. >> Lincoln: we have done a previous story on how the bark app
works. you can find it on our website, katu.com. but there are numerous other parental control
apps to choose from. they allow parents to monitor to varying degrees their kids' online world.
>> Deb: Oregon lawmakers are responding to our breaking the silence project. senators ron
wyden and jeff merkley held a news conference this morning to talk about the importance of
passing mental health legislation. there are several bills in the works to improve and fund
mental health treatment. including creating a dedicated three-digit number like 9-1-1 to help
people in mental health crises. >> if you are suffering, there is help. others are feeling what you
feel. others are experiencing what you are experiencing. and there's a community ready to
stand with you. >> deb: senator wyden says the initiative is so important to him, because his
brother struggled with mental health issues. both senators agree now is the time to act. >>
Lincoln: you can see all of the stories we've done for breaking the silence including a 30-minute
special on the relationship between bullying and suicide at breakingthesilence.com
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 12 • 9:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_163

two of Oregon’s congressman want to make it easier for people with mental health problems to
get help. they sat down with county leaders today in Portland to talk about mental health and
suicide. senator wyden is pushing the f-c-c to develop a three-digit mental health hotline -- like
what we have with 9-1-1 -- that's dedicated to suicide prevention and helping people in crisis.
what we need in Oregon is one true lifeline just for reaching out and preventing suicide if you
are suffering there is help. the truth is that we all matter. we're all worth it. every year -- more
than 800 Oregonians die from suicide.
News Radio KEX
Apr 12 • 9:55 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_164

the thing that bothers me most about suicide and be involved with campo we lose 22 veterans
a day a suicide the thing that bothers me about suicide is you can't control whether range
tomorrow you can't control whether the sun comes out he can't control whether it's hotter coal
but we make a decision whether or not harm ourselves and for so many veterans that's the
only decision makes sense I’m not a person who believes that suicide is a selfish choice effect I
don't like when people say that in I’ll tell you why we need have an instinctive innate desire for
survival we say it's someone was selfish when they took her own life because we're mad at
them how dare you robbed me of your company you were robbed me of time with you look
you took the thing I loved the most your whole life us for a moment I understand from stop and
think for a moment and home walk in their shoes for a without moment how much did you
have to be hurting how bad things have to be before you got to the point that she said I don't
want to live anymore and not talk about a 90 year-old with a crippling pain in the throes of a
terminal illness until people in their 20s how bad things have after be before that was the only
thing that made sense right how about we have the fast with that how about we explained that
117

person things are going to get better that's one we help campo that's why we're doing a
concert tonight that's why we raise money but then that's why we do what we do if you know
somebody who's suffering write down the number have a call to be a veteran on the other end
it's free and there's no government $ taken and liver cost an opinion 8.7 7.7 ptsd 8.7 7.7 ptsd
which is 8.7 7.7 78 73 start to get serious on all we really made a difference today use folks
made a difference that I hope you have a wonderful weekend taken hours this weekend ask
yourself this question through and what kind of person I am how will not be remembered what
matters to me is someone we're looking from the outside of my life what do I do that makes a
difference in the life of someone else in if you don't have some find some send an email.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 15 • 5:26 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_165

it is another doctor-assisted suicide built this one would expand the bill all and finds 79 creates
a loophole right now Oregon still ranks as the first government on planet earth no other state in
America had done this no other country had done this to authorize state sanctioned doctorassisted suicide I think it's a bad idea I think it is worked out badly in Oregon I think the reason
you don't hear more about it is most of the media signs off on this idea they'll take all it's great
without having known anybody who's gone through it they don't talk a lot about the bad
situation that happened because of doctor-assisted suicide but now they want to change some
of the waiting period right now under current law a person who goes to the doctor and says I
would like doctor's assistants whose side has to wait a minimum of 15 days before they can
make a second request day this bill would remove that 15 day waiting period if an attending
physician determines the person might die in the next week or two it also allows them to make
both the initial and second or request simultaneously right I have to ask your doctor and ask
again 15 days later said that they are sure that you are sure and then they have to wait for a
minimum of 48 hours after the patient makes their written request before they write a
prescription they want to get this down to the same day that doctor-assisted suicide now can
you imagine the potential for really tragic situations I think this is a bad idea the senate bill 5 79
says Oregon while concerned about the high level of suicide the state doesn't seem to see the
connection that you've already got state assisted suicide and then you're wondering why other
people commit suicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 15 • 5:52 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_166

they might you have about the job then trying to streamline the do I thought it yes they want
they want I know the whole will get choose same day approval for suicide instead of having to
wait at least a couple of weeks and make a formal request and then the doctor just wait 48
hours before he or she writes a prescription I said i'd these days I should say he year day what
you think of that is that a good idea well I think it's hypocritical and what I like to point out is
that a gold mine that may we're sure where with a gun laws one of the big proponent for that
be anti-suicide portion about the hell am I went to the committee hearing that it was all well
the border we were talking about how that bill which so far they support but I do this or I find it
118

hypocritical that they want about them all to prevent vilified while the same time they want to
streamline the job they have been the suicide is that crazy and listen the truth be told I wish we
could eliminate suicide altogether I really don't think there's any problem that is so terrible and
and some people face some terrible problems but there is no problem we cannot solve to some
extent without someone having to take his or her own life it is especially offensive to me that
stage would decide to involve itself in suicide of a citizen and that they would buy it by
extension when they sanction their sanctions yet on our behalf so they're making us part of a
really terrible act and I’ve heard people say but what happens when your life is so miserable
you just want to you know you want to all be over right now well if you want to do that I mean
it's sad to say I would never encourage anybody to commit suicide but that's entirely within
your control as a citizen of the state can't really stop you from committing suicide but what the
state could do was say we won't be a part of it and we won't make other people part of that
that I think is evil because it's extending state authority to say give this doctor which is like who
is licensed by the state permission to use the drugs to somebody to take their life and especially
has bad implications if you think about if we ever go to a Medicare for all like some of the
democrats are proposing then the state has a dog in the fight they have an incentive and seeing
people who were terminally ill check out early and we shouldn't ever be involved in that.
KHQ (NBC)
Apr 15 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_55

statistics show less than 40% of adults and only 20% of kids with mental illness are getting the
treatment they desperately need. that means thousands in our community could be
struggling...in silence. providence sacred heart has a program called "mental health first aid"
and the life saving techniques they're learning through training are now available for you too.
khq's hayley guenthner explains. stand up: we're all aware of the importance of knowing cpr or
the signs of a heart attack, but what about mental health? a new program at providence works
to change that for our entire community. 45:20 we want to about it. the data do something
shows we need to do something about it. the data shows we need to do something about it.
sara clements- sason 42 how big of a problem is this? we saw a more than 400 percent increase
in our youth alone in suicides and suicides attempts alone. as a mother...it's heartbreaking. we
all have a story. a spouse, a friend...maybe it's even you who is struggling with mental illness.
for some, the pain is just too much. 48:13 I had a best friend at 13 who committed suicide. a
heartache providence's community health investment manager sara clements-sampson again
and has seen play out again....but as an organization they're fighting back against the demons
that haunt so many. 46:21 as a providence st. joseph health system, we've taken on mental
health and part of that is getting out staff trained up on this mental health first aid and it's not
just program. their staff...but now you too. 50:31 it's so much more prevalent than people
realize. professionally and personally, I’ve seen such need to get awareness out there. that's
why katherine griessmann is so passionate about teaching the mental health first aid course.
51:23 we talk about how to assess for suicide or risk of harm, how to listen in a nonjudgmental
way, how to give resources information and hope, how to encourage professional help and
encourage self help and other strategies. and encourage self help and other strategies. it covers
everything from schizophrenia to anxiety and prepares you to schizophrenia to anxiety and
119

prepares you to help those in need simply cope. 52:10 you're not going to leave with the ability
to diagnose and treat but you will leave with the ability to recognize signs and symptoms and
how to start having a conversation with someone that's close to you or you with someone
that's close to you or you interact with professionally. and in turn the ability to say that right
words...that could save a life. hayley guenthner khq local news providence sacred heart's next
mental health first aid course will be held april 27th. again, it is free, but you must register to
secure your spot.
KOBI
Apr 15 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_167

as police responded to a person dealing with a mental health crisis. around six this morning...
Medford and phoenix police, as well as o-s-p shut down the northbound lanes of interstate.
eventually Jackson county public health arrived, and the situation was safely resolved. "when a
person is in crisis, we make contact with them and help them see and understand that past that
moment they are in crisis in and try and figure out what needs they are and what we can do in
that moment to help them with. if you or someone you know is going through a mental health
crisis... help is available. you can call the national suicide prevention line at 1-800-273-8255... or
text 741-741.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 16 • 2:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_168

i want to talk about suicide today oh boy but I read this space this is usa today and it really
struck me in that and I don't agree with what the person the point of the person writing it but it
brings up the bigger point to me and he had written about a guy that had committed suicide a
white guy and me he wrote that this is what we're seeing more and more is white middle-aged
men taking their lives more than we've ever seen like it's an epidemic and and what is bringing
that on out what he says is well is in part the American dream I don't so much agree with that
for more on that second he said you know suicide steadily increasing boy suffered 10 point ford
deaths per 100000 in 2014 and 2017 said so where he was before detroit that metro that
means about 6 people killed themselves in 2017 wow and boy and research will show the vast
majority involved substance abuse and door mental illness diagnosed not least people with a
lot of questions you know white males he says with all the advantages we are afforded an
American society accounted for 70% of suicides enjoy yourselves at nearly twice the national
rate and is also rising among women 45 to 64 mostly white and wise the highest rate in the
mountain west vacation haven and outdoor playground he goes on to say he's not an expert
but he's known a handful of guys over the years have taken their own lives said not now that
prime demographic he's now an aspin and he's seen the area plagued by suicide and he was
talking with the chaplains there and the chaplain from the fire department who also operates
an emergency suicide hotline said the ski season goes by people think I didn't meet the girl of
my dreams I got laid off I don't have any more money I’m embarrassed and I don't want to tell
my family that didn't succeed and so they take on life now yeah and said that's true all across
the country is how people feel they measure against others and then try to figure out what
120

they're going to do about it you agree with that part yes do you think it's about the failed
american dreamer so how they feel like they failed I think it's because you feel like you failed
and a lot of it is beyond your control however again I look at this I said to myself because social
media I blame social media because anything can be blind however when you look at people on
social media page who seem to live on vacation have these new homes these new cars these
new things may they seem to have the wife in the end the friends go hang in party into all these
wonderful things all the time their kids are perfect in every way then I think you feel like you
are a failure if you're not living up to that now what you're seeing is a mirage proportionately
seeing highlights here yes I’m not real no it's not real but it grinds on you after a while I mean
where are you you don't see yourself reflected in any of those people and you feel like you're a
complete miserable failure lower it what was in my case your identity is taken away from you
and your career is taken away from you and everything you ever known is taken away from you
that could be pretty dark place to be absolutely through no fault of your own necessarily agent
it was because of health related things that happened to me personally now was I never in a
position where I thought take my life is the answer no I was favoring a position where I wish
they would have let me die yes yeah I mean that's a weird spot to be yet but if you want me to
be honest and truthful I think it happens more than just me I mean finally realized that there is
a reason you alive and you want to be alive but I also get the fact that you measure them the
way we measure success with man in particular and don't be sexist we do we measured by
income we measure it by the abided by social standing we career advancement we measure it
by those things I think right now you really hitting their heads on it it's much the american
dream but how you not as define success reception of the american dream yes he has heard
the theory goes this way when you're a kid its measure on the playground how well you can
compete with others yes maybe it's the classroom a lot of times it's more the playground yes
and then maybe a little while later aids how many women you can track that's how it's
measured.
AM 860
Apr 16 • 4:49 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_169

meanwhile there's am continued debate of down a whiny suicide has increased in the united
states and they're two different columns mountains one I think is a substance to event final
column by David brooks is going to be joining us on the show next week and that's important
but there's another column that says the problem with suicide is the American dream and a guy
named brandi Essex have loved to have a rule the show randy yes takes is a senior news
director of the Detroit free press he writes a dark side of the American dream white men having
big advantages have big advantages yet we are killing ourselves and it's USA today and their
opinion section he says it's not uncommon for people to kill themselves like people I’ve known
to have taken their lines many are hardworking middle aged white males with solid track record
is exactly the kind of American most likely to die by suicide each case is heartbreaking and
haunting I blame in part he writes the American dream and what he is arguing here is that it is
harder for white people because they're always told you can do you can make it you can raise
yourself okay but then he stipulates that a lot of these white males who are killing themselves
our people have made it who overachieved good jobs and the entire colonies very strange
121

because it's contradictory and he seems to suggest event it is because of the advantages of
white privilege that people are killing themselves really he writes white males have all the
advantages we are afforded American society account for 70% of suicides and by the way males
are 3 times as likely to commit suicide as females generally and I believe white females are also
overrepresented as opposed to black females a bid in error or females of color in the suicide
rates he says why is suicide suddenly rising among women aged 45 to 64 dome and commit
suicide at 3 times the rate wise the raid highest in the mountain west vacation haven an
outdoor playground I’m not an expert but I’ve known a handful of men over the years who took
their own lives simon the prime demographic myself I spent 3 years as an editor near aspen
colorado as strange as it may seem an area plagued by suicide and then what he says he says
that takes me back to my indictment of the American dream so why are you blaming American
dream for them is he says the idea that this nation for each of us the opportunity to be
whatever you want comes true for many but certainly not all unspoken is the converse
implications especially for white men born with advantages conferred by race and gender if you
can make it it's your fault and your failure so what he's suggesting is that if we allow people to
blame something else other than themselves for frustrations if you can blame assigned them
into less likely to commit suicide they are more likely to lead a contented happy productive life
if you don't imbibe this idea that you can raise yourself and better yourself through your own
working your own efforts and your own aspirations what he doesn't acknowledge here is a look
part of what has happened with suicide and ever everyone points this out all of the experts who
looked at it is a lot of it is related to drug use and increasing drug use and yes of course opioids
and heroin and of course these suicide is probably even higher than we acknowledged because
some of those drug overdose deaths wishers sky rocketing are in a sense the equivalent of of
suicide and a lot of this has to do with on untreated mental illness as well which is continuing
problem in America and the idea that somehow the answer to this is stopping the message to
people that you can do it you can actually better your life then this happens to be true there
are opportunities in America and by the way there not just opportunities for a white man I
mean that idea is utterly ridiculous me it I don't believe that white privilege explains why white
man would be more likely to film themselves than white women for instance but time it in all
the areas further conversation.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 16 • 7:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_170

velena: a class action lawsuit filed today against governor brown and the Oregon department of
human services alleges the state failed to properly care for foster children and even revictimizes them. jennifer:rightsts Oregon and a national non-profit group filed that lawsuit. our
lisa balick is digging deeper into this and joins us with more. lisa: this lawsuit was filed on behalf
of 10 children in the Oregon foster care system who attorneys say were harmed or neglected
while in the state foster system, but there are more than 70 children cited as examples where
the state has failed them in foster care. the lawsuit claims dhs has violated federal and state
laws by not finding adequate foster homes for many children. more than 80 are still housed in
out of state facilities. some in modified juvenile jail cells and homeless shelters here in Oregon. I
talked with one of the attorneys for the children in the lawsuit. >> there's a young woman
122

named naomi in the lawsuit who was feeling suicidal. she went to the emergency room, and
she was released and came back a week later because she was cutting herself. dhs took her into
custody and she was placed in a homeless shelter with no access to mental healthcare. lisa: the
goal of the lawsuit is to force dhs to provide better care, closer to home placements in familytype home settings, not institutions, and the supports needed for foster parent as well. dhs
would not comment on camera but told lawmakers last week it has been working on these
issues. today in a statement dhs said it shares the same vision of a foster care system where all
children are safe, have the customized supports they need to heal, and are cared for in stable,
loving families where they thrive. the lawsuit also demands better care for foster children with
disabilities and those who identify as lgbtq. one teen had more than 50 foster placements.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 16 • 8:23 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_171

a high school student in Oregon is trying to spread awareness about suicide prevention. in
tonight's project safe family: it's the focus of Mikayla Friday’s senior project. she's putting on a
5k run in Newberg in may, to raise money for the American foundation for suicide prevention.
Mikayla says she wants people to feel comfortable talking about suicide... so they don't feel like
they have to hide their personal experiences. her dad died from suicide when she was a
freshman. one of her friends also died, and so did her mom's best friend. then last year... her
neighbor's husband died. I’ve talked to, my neighbor who lost her husband. I was like this, I was
crying so bad, I think for the both of us it really helped to talk about it and to have a similar
experience. when Mikayla was in the seventh grade -- she considered taking her own life after
being bullied in school. she got help from a school counselor... and now, she wants to focus on
ending the stigma of keeping silent. if you need help... there's a teen to teen hotline.th open
from four in the afternoon until ten at night. you can also see the number for the national
suicide prevention lifeline which is staffed 24 hours a day.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 16 • 9:10 PM

B_Apr_Wash_56

we want to turn now to the tragic epidemic impacting our nation's veterans, a staggering
number dying by suicide every single day. just last week three veterans took their own lives at
v.a. facilities. tonight, nbc's Courtney kube talks with one mother who says her son didn't get
the help he needed after serving his country. >> reporter: army specialist terry o'hearn served
tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. >> he came into the world a fighter. >> reporter: but when he
came home, his mother robin noticed something had changed. >> well, he wasn't as happy-golucky. >> reporter: for years, he battled post-traumatic stress. in 2016, he put a homemade
shotgun to his chest and fired. he survived, spending the next few weeks in a v.a. hospital. robin
fought to keep him there, but two weeks later he was released and took his own life. >> it just
seems like terry slipped through the v.a. cracks at every step. >> reporter: the statistics are
shocking. 20 veterans die by suicide every day, 1.5 times higher than the civilian population.
just last week, three veterans took their own lives at v.a. facilities, including in the waiting room
of this Austin clinic. >> all of the sudden over the intercom, they had this statement about
123

everyone must clear the building. >> reporter: last month, president trump established a
veteran suicide prevention task force. >> veteran suicide is a tragedy of staggering proportions.
>> reporter: and now robin, an air force veteran herself, has a new mission. >> I want people
that are in the position that we were in to understand the process so that maybe they could
intervene. I wish that we could have intervened at some point. >> reporter: no comment on the
recent suicides citing privacy concerns, the v.a. telling us their deepest condolences go out to
the loved ones affected by these deaths. lester? >> Courtney kube at the pentagon, thank you.
if you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts, please call the suicide
prevention lifeline. it's available 24 hours a day. the number on your screen, 1-800-273-8255.
KDRV (ABC)
Apr 17 • 2:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_172

tonight a man who charged police officers two swords is now in hospital with life-threatening
injuries this happen on Academy Street month Santo police got a call about a suicidal person
found a man who appeared to be having a mental health crisis a crisis team tried to get the
man surrendered for several hours the officer fired at him when he ran toward them second
time no officers were hurt.
KDRV (ABC)
Apr 17 • 2:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_173

Recent studies show that 17 percent of high school students have seriously considered suicide.
the experts are trying to help target those kids and what to do when you find them. "we don't
think anything of it, if what if I have a part of the human condition and to really teach about the
removal of the stigma and what kinds of steps we can take. they're very clear steps that we can
take to actually help somebody who's struggling with, with a mental health issue ricker says the
key to success is to teach people what they need to know about mental health issues and to
give staff members and others the tools to help people. she says knowledge on this issue is
power and helps get rid of the stigma of mental health issues. the national alliance on mental
illness is offering mental health film shorts. you can come out and watch the films and then join
a discussion after. two events are being held. one is at the rogue river room at southern Oregon
university in Ashland. that's on May 18 from 1:00 to 4:00. the second one is on May 19 at the
same time. this one is at the r-c-c redwood campus in grants pass in the rogue auditorium.
tickets are free, though donations are suggested.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 17 • 2:00 AM

B_Apr_Wash_57

reporter: steve, police told us they had no choice but to shoot when that man charged at them.
it is a residential area. it is completely blocked off. we know police not a suicidal call from a man
having a mental health crisis. when they made contact with the suspect, he charged at them.
check out what the scene looked like earlier today. we know no one was hurt, but t suspect was
still considered a threat. that is when the officers began the hours long negotiation process. at
124

some point during the standoff, he charged officers again. and that is when he was shot by
police. the suspect is now at gray's harbor community hospital tonight with life threatening
inriri. as investigators are out here trying to learn hat led up to this, there are many
unanswered questions about how this nt down. how many shots were fired and where t
suspect was hit. but we do know this the type of crime that is extremely rar for the time of the
community. this intersection is blocked out as well. as they continue to investigate an officer
involved shooting that also involved a very long negotiation process. we will find o what other
information and will get it to you jessica oh, kiro 7 news.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 17 • 8:28 AM

B_Apr_Wash_58

this morning a man shot by police during a standoff in grays harbor county is in the hospital
with life-threatening injuries. police responded to reports of a suicidal man inside a home in
montesan yesterday afternoon. officers say the man like had a mental health issue. when they
tried to talk to him, officers say he started charging at them. a crisis response team was called
in and negotiated with the man for several hours. officers say man charged at them again and
that's when they opened fire. the man is recovering grays harbor community hospital. police
are now investigating.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 10:02 AM

B_Apr_Wash_59

Police got a call about a suicidal man who appeared to be experiencing a mental health crisis
and when officers made contact with that suspect we're told many charged at them with two
swords we know no one was hurt but the suspect police considered still a threat and that's
when were told officers started though hours long negotiation process trying to get this man to
leave with them peacefully but were told that some point during the standoff he charged at
officers again and that's when he was shot by police and he said to be in critical condition
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 1:30 PM

B_Apr_Wash_60

Florida teenager described as armed and extremely injuries and obsessed with the massacre at
Columbine High School in Colorado is dead of an apparent suicide schools in the Denver area
were closed today and yesterday the fbi search for 18 year-old sold by these last seen in the
foothills outside the city the fbi found out on Monday pious flew from miami to Denver they say
she went straight to a gun store where she bought a pump action shotgun and ammunition ABC
claims Sandell in Littleton Colorado where a large Columbine memorial service is planned for
Saturday its 20th anniversary of the shooting the FBI says Patty he's made unspecified threats
against schools and actuated with columbine the 1999 high school massacre that killed 12
students and one teacher but now it say the threat to the public is over 18 year-old salt by
these found dead of an apparent suicide just two days after landing in Denver and vanishing
heading toward the foothills outside the city.
125

B_Apr_Wash_61

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 3:10 PM
have a story coming up this afternoon on all things considered about managed high school in
bellevue where they take this whole idea of mental health education very seriously they have
mental health curricula in 10th grade health class so everyone goes through it 10th graders
presents research on mental health disorders to parents during like an evening event and the
idea is to empower kids with information so that they can be aware of what might be
happening in themselves and what might be happening among their friends and some manish
high schools interesting because a student there just recently died by suicide so it's really
shaken up the community and ice Saturday and chatting with a bunch of 10th graders I was
really surprised and amazed by how openly they were talking about mental health and the
challenges they see their school yeah let me ask about suicide because like you said these kids
are spending big chunks of their day of school I’m not around him how much training teachers
and staff getting in preventing suicide and mental health while some staff are getting training
counselors school nurses and school psychologist are required to get suicide prevention training
on schools are also required to have a suicide prevention plan in place and there's now a bill
working its way through the legislature that would have teachers do behavioral health training
not necessarily suicide prevention but just training and behavioral health during one of their
teacher in service day is there also state approved prevention suicide prevention curriculum
and their training their available to t chairs for that and do the well-informed people are they
saying that's enough for yeah well yeah this also depends on who you ask so just down the
street from where we're sitting at university of Washington there's a place called for French
suicide prevention and the centre of excellence of the university they do training and lobbying
and research on suicide prevention and they think that's a traditional model which is like
trainee teachers or bringing a curriculum that stock it's not enough for him they believe that
suicide prevention have to be this ongoing part of the school's culture and they've been
experimenting with partnering with schools have about 30 of them right now and that they
work with them for 3 year period and they do all kinds of things from training to use of working
with students and right now the students really heavily involved they organize these suicide
prevention teams to open up conversations around mental health and Tessa help their fellow
students were struggling and I will have a story about that tomorrow on all things considered
okay that's tomorrow last thing then dead youth suicides rising nationally their rising here I
understand that on average two kids a week in the state died by suicide yeah and tragically we
just heard this morning that in king county for kids died by suicide in the past week like
between Thursday and sunday want to kids on the east side in and one kid shoreline my kid a
little bit south of us in a nearby near auburn unusual in the number of kids so far 7 kids in king
county have died by suicide this year all last year which is actually very high year youth suicides
12 kids died so a lot of people right now thinking about a suicide this is kayla delhi reporter
126

Deborah long it you can hear her stories high schools are doing about mental health this
afternoon I kw all things considered thanks a lot thanks and last thing if you or a loved one is
struggling thinking about suicide reach out to seek help we've got links to resources on our
website.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 4:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_62

president Alan Garcia has killed himself off to clean is trying to arrest him in a bribery
investigation we have from his former finance minister to forestall any the you take that leap
forward in the sense that he would be thinking 6 see now almost op what is going wrong and
he read you what he said an afghan women to mom or of say indicates nations between the
government and the Taliban we have a special report. I’m David talk with the BBC news the
former president of Peru and coscia have died after shooting himself fast police arrived at his
height to arrested for corruption allegations, he was accused of taking bribes from the prison in
construction for an audit breast which has admitted paying corrupt officials across Latin
America mr. coscia denied wrongdoing correspondent daniel dallas has more details about 6
police officers showed up very early this morning to Mr. Garcia has house once they entered
and he realized this was the arrest of a lot of people have been ex acting for some time mr.
garcia asked to go upstairs and make a phone call he locked himself in his office in what the
police was coming upstairs to talk to him they heard gunshots being fired they opened the door
and found Mr. Garcia still alive took him to the hospital where he eventually died.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 5:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_174

Dramatic news at Peru today a two-time former President of the country Garcia is dead
Peruvian authorities say he committed suicide rather than face arrest on corruption charges
city and take those reporter based in Lima he says it was a startling scene earlier today and
garcia his House in approving capital so police showed up a 6 for you this morning to issue an
arrest warrant he initially appeared equal opportunist and Aust to go to his bedroom to court
his lawyer he went to that but to pull off a few minutes a gunshot was heard but these
spending full then why didn't I found Garcia a sit-in with the £ a gunshot wound to his head
power peru he is reacting to this knows I think it's fair to say this news has already rolled
through of the Garcia is northeast was a towering political figure he he was twice president
from 1985 1998 and then from 2006 to 2011 and was probably the most able politician all for a
recent review history but he's also been it off he is reviled figure he runs for re-election in 2016
gold just 6% of the vote the reason for that is this whites bridge a widespread perception that
he was corrupt he's for us presidency ended hyperinflation and all kinds of Croft I nations
against him Garcia then left the country and was living in Paris law the statute of limitations ran
out he was re-elected in 2006 but a second term was mauled by the Odebrecht memb discoun
all Odebrecht his disposition construction company that was admitted paying old the billion
dollars in bribes to politicians across Latin America in return for public contracts and Gossi a
bizarre idea goes mobile contracts for Brett than any other President in recent truce in history
127

there was an arrest warrant this morning before he killed himself does that suggest that Al
aggressive would have gone to trial maybe even serve time that's what seemed to be on the
call it's basically prove him prosecutors had just reached this agreement we've over the Brexit
in Brazil that allows the company to turn knows what he knows about its corrupt acts in Peru to
the prosecutors' hit without fear of Odebrecht executives being themselves prosecute it but
they just count the company had to depend on Oct 29 million $ in bribes with in Peru from the
leaks that are coming out to approve an oppressive seemed Garcia was heaven implicates it just
over the weekend one of the big revelations was good no choice not an echo she used personal
secretary had received full million $ goes from a depressed I guess the obvious question is how
much money was actually meant for him and how much it was meant for his balls but it did
seem that the net was closing in.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 17 • 6:13 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_175

Coming up on the anniversary the 20 year 20 years past this saturday since the murders at
columbine high school in littleton colorado a young lady by the name of seoul pay is an 18 yearold from florida got on an airplane flew the colorado went to a gun store bought a shot gun and
ammunition she was they were searching for they actually lock the school's down she had
made credible but nonspecific threats after traveling from miami to denver on monday night
the search was continuing forward today. she has now been found she is dead and will get of
course more details on it as the days go on but I have a feeling this young lady took her own life
that's the sad thing in every case but the fact that she had some weird fascination with the the
murders at columbine high school 20 years ago at the age of 18 she wasn't even alive when it
happened but she had this weird fascination with an apparently caused church to do some
strange things and I think ultimately take her life.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 17 • 6:30 PM

B_Apr_Wash_63

Families in king county are mourning the deaths of 4 young people who died by suicide the
deaths occurred in the past week k would have used whatever long has more the for young
people who died were two 16 year-old girls one 17 year-old girl and one 16 year-old boy two
were from the east side one from shoreline and one from al going there's no evidence the
desert related it's unusual to have so many youth suicides at once throughout all of last year a
total of 12 kids in king county took their lives so far this year the number stands at 7 suicide is
the second leading cause of death among people aged 10 to 24 and the numbers are rising. A
recent study found the number of adolescents who presented to emergency rooms for suicidal
thoughts or actions double between the years 2007 and 2015 for kbw news I’m ever wrong in
Seattle if you or someone you know is contemplating suicide please reach out for help the
national suicide prevention hotline as a free service answered by trained staff the number is
one 802.3 be 8 to 5 5.
KUOW-FM (Radio)

B_Apr_Wash_64

128

Apr 17 • 6:45 PM
It's tough to be a mental health counselor in high school these days adolescence is reporting an
increase in mental illnesses from anxiety and depression to suicidal thinking k u w debra wada
report high school is much more stressful place then you debate at the mammoth high school
in bellevue it's a big night for the 10 gray more I’m here presented abode excited disorder and
the students are sitting around table with their laptops and presenting their research projects
to parents another visit and waves a choice and you go through these one dramatic events
throughout their entire lives charm way it researched post-traumatic stress disorder others
looked at depression anxiety and eating disorders a suicide the students have been learning
about mental health in 10th grade health class charisse estate is there a teacher when I really
get into teaching around mental health and we start really taking into what different mental ha
off conditions and fall over disorders students are realizing that's me the state has been a
teacher for well over a decade she's seen a steady increase in mental health challenges among
students and study's show that teenage stress right now it's not just hired then their parents
the stress was when they were teens it's higher than their parents current stressed a
couple art teens are more stressed than their parents and if you put a bunch of students
around the table they pretty much agree stress is a big problem with your 10th grader alexa I
don't get depressed I just like to stress and like were read and have a lot of anxiety it just gets
really hard mental health professional city increasing mental illnesses among youth could be
attributed in part to more kids getting diagnosed and getting help but something else is going
on as well experts point to increase stress from academic expectations screens and social media
bullying economic worries and helicopter parenting among other things david downing from
youth eastside services it provides mental health services on the east side including two schools
like memish high school he says a decade ago most of the kids that y.e. s served and suffered
from some kind of trama now they're seeing a much broader cross section of kids from all socio
economic groups and they're experiencing much more acute symptoms than they did before at
one time you know we would have maybe had a couple kids in a six-month period that we
would need to get them connected to the hospital for inpatient psychiatric hospitalization it is
suicide ality now you know it's not every week that there's weeks where others 4 or more kids
you have that the increased level of that is just really significant a recent study in the journal of
the american medical association pediatrics found the number of kids under 18 who presented
to emergency rooms with suicidal thoughts or actions doubled between 2007 and 2015 david
downing says many stressors are hitting this generation all at once so you add all of that
together there's just this probe found in a difference that young people are facing now and I
don't think a lot of adults necessarily understand the complexity that young people are under
now days and its manish high school this one other thing on people's minds it's an event that is
put student mental health front and center this year student died by suicide chris stay says the
impact on the school has been incalculable these 10th graders didn't know her but they say
they were deeply affected by her down it made him realize they need to take better care of
others this here's 10 reader him you never know how I was feeling bad day like they could be
on the edge. and some people just need to that the kind which doesn't happen another off for
kayode the news I’m ever wrong tomorrow on all things considered will take a look at what kids

129

are doing to help prevent suicides if you or a loved one is struggling with thoughts of suicide
please reach out and seek help we have links to resources on our website.

B_Apr_Oreg_176

KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 17 • 7:29 PM
Deb: looking across America now, the teenager who was reportedly infatuated with the
columbine shooting and made threats to the school has been found dead. the fbi says sol pais
died by suicide this morning. the 18-year-old traveled from Florida to Colorado and purchased a
shotgun monday night. more than 150 schools were closed in colorado as a precaution. officials
said the investigation and manhunt spanned multiple states. >> everybody was workingery hard
at preventing additional loss of life. the outcome in miss pais's taking her own life is a tragedy in
and of itself. >> deb: the fbi removed evidence from her home this morning. saturday marks the
20-year anniversary of the columbine shooting. >>> here's a phone line specifically for youth
who may somer need someone to talk to -- 1-877-968-8491. you can also text "teen2teen" to
83 nyberg 863
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 17 • 8:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_177

the teenager who reportedly was infatuated with the columbine shooting, made threats to the
school has been found that. fbi says sol pais, has died by suicide this morning, 18-year- old from
florida had traveled to colorado and purchased a shotgun monday night more than 150 schools
were closed in colorado today as a precaution, officials said the investigation and manhunt span
multiple states. >> everybody was working very hard at preventing additional loss of life. the
outcome in her taking her own life is a tragedy, in and of itself. >> the fbi removed evidence
from her miami home this morning, saturday, March 20 year anniversary of the columbine
shooting. there is a phone line, specifically for youth who may need to talk to someone. that is
1-877-968-8491.
KBNZ
Apr 17 • 8:30 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_178

the big story we are following tonight, the sudden end in colorado to the search for aor
teenager who authorities feared was planning an attack to mark 20 years since the massacre at
columbine, in which 12 studentsch and one teacher were killed.il today, columbine and many
other schools near denver were closed as a precaution, but the suspect apparently killed
herself.se barry petersen has more on what happened.ha >> reporter: here in the woods of
west of denver, authorities were taking no chances. they went in, guns drawn, after getting a
tip that 18-year-old sol pais was armed and in the area. they later found her body during the
search, ending a three-day manhunt that rattled coloradans just days before the anniversary of
130

the columbine schoolhe massacre. >> at this point it looks as if she was alone, that she took
herfe own life with the weapon that she procured. >> reporter: after she went missing from her
south florida home, police found what they described to cbs news as "deeply disturbing" posts
online and they alerted the f.b.i. police said she had an infatuation with columbine. a profile on
what appears to be' pais' social media account read, "be the best killer you can be," and "being
alive is [expletive deleted] overrated," alongside the sketch of a gun. she had traveled from
florida to denver monday night where she legally purchased a pump-action shotgun and
ammunition. responding to what they described as a credible threat, two dozen schools took
security precautions yesterday, and today, half a million students in the denver metro area
were told to stay home. >> to close an entire metro area is not an easy decision, but at the end
of the day, it's the right decision, and the best decision, to protect all of our kids. >> reporter:
parents, like lyndsey schwartz, a mother of three in denver schools, supported the move. >>
and it was a huge inconvenience, is a huge inconvenience for so many people, but better than
not having them come home. >> reporter: while stuck at home, her 10-year-old son jackson
kept in touch with his friends. f >> I had a lot of friends who were just texting, like, it's, you
know, really scary. >> reporter: jeff, they do active shooter drills in schools across this area. and
here, in the school district that includes columbine, they start those drills in kindergarten.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 17 • 9:28 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_179

with the 20th anniversary of columbine just days away, the hunt is over for an armed and
dangerous woman police feared might be capable of another massacre just like that one.
welcome back to kgw news at 6:00. 18-year-old sol pais is dead. >> colorado schools went on
lockdown after pais traveled to the denver area, and bought a gun. >> reporter: what federal
agents called a massive manhunt is now over in colorado, after 18-year-old sol pais was found
dead in a remote area on the outskirts of denver. >> she appeared to have died from a selfinflected gunshot wound. >> reporter: investigators say the troubled team was infatuated with
the columbine high school massacre. >> we are used to threats, frankly, at columbine. this one
felt different. it was different, and it certainly had our attention. >> reporter: law enforcement
has not confirmed newly revealed social posts that appear to be from pais, including a post
about suicide and weapons, with a sketch of guns and knives. under the user name dissolved
girl, she talks about planning for the day, and asks about buying a shotgun in colorado. schools
across the area, including columbine were shut down today as a precaution, during what for
many was already a difficult and painful time with ceremonies, and remembrances scheduled
saturday, marking 20 years since the massacre. >> I’m always inspired by this community's
capacity, resilience and capacity for good in the face of unimaginable evil. >> reporter: the
community, still working to heal the scars that linger two decades after the attack. jay gray, nbc
news.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 17 • 9:55 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_180

131

five students in the district died by suicide since February of last year. since then, the district
added a suicide prevention position to the staff. one of the easiest ways to help kids is to make
sure they have this number programmed into their phones. it's the national life lineup and
connects callers with local experts. they say most mental health crises are temporary and
talking to an expert during one can save lives. that number is 1-800-273-talk. >> deb: a local
mom is doing what she can in honor of her daughter. >> in 2018 she lost her life to suicide. and
I’ve since decided that in her legacy I was going to help other people. >> deb: she was an
accomplished teenager, graduating with honors, very compassionate. but she also lived with
depression so deep she died by suicide. now her mom has organized the first-ever hike for hope
in Oregon. tomorrow in a "kind is better" report, she shares why it is so important for survivors
of suicide to talk about it.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 17 • 10:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_65

20 years after the deadly attack at columbine high school, a woman called a credible threat
travel to the area, purchased a shotgun and ammunition, sparking an intense search. denver
area schools canceled class because of the scare and parents were understandably worried. jay
ay has the latest develop months. are what federal agents calling a massive manhunt is over in
Colorado, after 18-year-old, sol pais was founded in a remote area on the outskirts of denver.
>> she appears to have died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. >> reporter: investigators say
the trouble team was infatuated with the massacre at the columbine high school, traveling to
the area this week buying a shotgun and ammunition. >> we are used to threats at columbine,
this one felt different, it was different and certainly had our attention. >> reporter: law
enforcement has not confirmed newly posted social media post from pais, with a blog and
journal with disturbing entries about suicide and weapons and sketches of guns and knives.
under the username, dissolve girl, she talks about planning and organizing for the day and
asked about buying a shotgun in colorado. schools across the area, including columbine where
shutdown today's part of a crush and an during for what was a painful time with ceremonies
and remembrances scheduled saturday, marking 20 years since the massacre. >> I’m always
inspired by this community’s capacity, resilience and capacity for good in the face of
unimaginable evil. >> reporter: a community still working to heal the scars that linger two
decades after the attack. jay gray with NBC news.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 17 • 10:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_66

tonight, a south sound community is working to save children's lives by opening up discussion
about suicide. community leaders invited a man who survived a suicide attempt to talk to
students at puyallu high school and kig alison grande was there for the inspirational discussion
>> reporter: hundreds of students fildthe gym at pallup high school to hear om kevin heinz. >> I
wish I knew back ten what I know today. that my thoughts do not have to become my actions.
>> reporter: whe heinz was 19, he jumped off the egate bridge and incdiy, lived to talk about it.
>> I fel 220 feet. 25 stories. at 75 mile an hour. in four seconds. in those four sends, these were
132

the words that rang true in my mind. what have I just done? I am going to die. god save me. >>
reporter: he broke his back and legs but using his arms he fought his way to the surface. I said
to myself, you can't die here. You’re here kevin, nobody will ever know you didn't want to.
nobody will ever know what you knew you made a mistake. >> reporter: heinz still struggles
with mental illness. >> I lived with chronic thoughts of suicide. I live with regular hallucination. I
liue with dastardly depression. but I get up every morning work tirelessly for my brain health. if
I don't, I won't be here. >> reporter: today, he convinced students to ask for help. > turn to
someone wh is near you, who ill empathize. say the words I need help now. >> the need is real.
and, it isn't going to get better by ignoring it. >> reporter: the puylup school district and police
want to be proactive when I comes to suicide prevention. >> there is a school of thought that if
we don't talk about this, it won't happen, or it will go away. and, where we come to the
conclusion in our community is dealing with this head on. with a lot of partners. With local
mental health. county health departments. Police departments. everyone working together.
that we hope it could make an impact and give kids a message of hope. >> reporter: in 2018,
the state's healthy youth survey showed 27% of tenth gres in experience county said they
considered tempting suicide in the past year. 22% said they made a plan and 13% said the
attempted suicide. the piercecoty health department tells us children died by suicide in 2015.
11 in 2016, and nine in 2017. these e kids between 10 and 19 years old. >> one life lost is t
many. thee is that hope and recovery aspect. but ls, to know that you are not alone. that there
are bad days but there' also good days. >> reporter: the pierce county health department
coordinated a team of professionals’ support students who asked for help. >> today, three kids
came up and talked to me. >> reporter: he is airing his message with all high school students.
tonight, he is at puyallup fairground speaking to t community. in puyallup, alion grande, kiro 7
news.
KDRV (ABC)
Apr 18 • 2:10 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_181

schools all around colorado are re-opening and lifting lockdowns... after police say a woman
who made a credible threat to columbine high school and other schools in the denver area took
her own life. authorities say the 18-year-old flew from her home in florida to colorado on
monday and immediately bought a pump- action shotgun and ammunition. the gun shop said
on its facebook page that she cleared both background checks and didn't seem nervous. the
threat opened old wounds for the community -- which is about to recognize the 20th
anniversary of the columbine massacre. frank deangelis/ former principal, columbine high
school: "yesterday I was in columbine high school when we went into lockout. we check in on
the 15 staff members who were there when it happened 20 years ago. some families start
reaching out to me just to provide support for everyone." at least 19 school districts were
closed wednesday as a man hunt was underway. fbi investigators are now looking into a
website they believe is connected to the woman who they say was quote "infatuated" with the
columbine shooting. if you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts... the number for
the national suicide prevention life line is on your screen.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)

B_Apr_Wash_67

133

Apr 18 • 3:31 PM
and a south sond community is working to save lives by opening up discussion about suicide.
leaders inviea man who survived a suicide attempt to talk to students. o o s alson grandy was
there. >> reporter: hundreds of students filed the gym hear from kevin. >> I wisiknew back then
what I know today. hat my thoughts do not have to become my actions. >> reporter hen he was
19, he jumped off the golden gate bridge nd incredibly lived to
tell about it. >> I fell I fur seconds. in the fou seconds, these were the words in my mind what
have I done. god please save me. and I hit the water. >> reporter: he broke his bac and legs and
fought to the surface. t di here. noby will ever know you didn't want to. nobody will ever knw
hat you knew you made a mistake. >> reporter: he still struggles with mntal illness. >> I live with
chronic thoughts of suicide. I ive with regular hallucinatons, auditory and visual. I live with
depressions. but I t up every morning and I work tirelely I know if I don't, I won'te here. >>
reporter: today, he convinced students to ask for help. >> turn to someone in front of you,
around you, near you to emphasize with the pain. I need help now. >> it's real. and it isn't going
to get better by ignoring t. >> rpter: the school district and police want to be proactive about
suicide prevention. >> there's a school othght if we don't talk aboutit, it will go away. we've
cometo the conclusion is that deling with this head on with lots of partners and mental health
department, the police deprent, everybody woking together, whope to make an impact and
give kids a message hope. >> reporter: in 2018, 27% of 10th graders considered attempting
suicide in the past year. 22% made a plan and 13% said they attempted suicide. theierce county
health department tells us ten children died from suicide in 2015 11 in 2016. and 9 in 2017.
thee are kids between ten and 19 years old. >> one life lost is too many. and so there's that
hope and recovery apt. and als to know you're not alone. that there are bad days. but there's
also good ds. >> reporter: the tacoma pierce county health department helped coordinate a am
of mental health professionals to support students who ask for help. >> three ki surge up and
said your speech saved my life. different kids, different lives different stories.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 18 • 9:42 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_182

deb: suicide is a difficult word for just about everyone, but one local mom who lost a child to
suicide is trying to change the conversation and she's starting by getting people outside to hike
for hope. cora knows it's a difficult word. >> even I when my daughter passed away, I had a
hard time even saying the word "suicide." >> deb: her daughter died by suicide last year after
struggling with deep depression. it was difficult to talk about because she wants her daughter
to be remembered by all of accomplish. s, not only how she died. but she says that's part of the
problem. >> I understand that parents didn't -- don't want to speak out about it, but until we
actually talk about what our children have gone through, about what our children are part of
the problem. we're not talking about it. >> deb: she knows there's no easy reason why
someone dies by suicide. >> it's not that simple. it has a lot -- suicide is complicated. it's got a
lot of different pieces to it. >> deb: she wants to honor her daughter, and get people talking
about suicide by doing something mikena loved. hiking. >> she loved Portland, she loved
134

Oregon. she hiked here, she hiked anywhere they could grab, after school grab her back
backpack, she would go off and hike. >> deb: she's joined by the American foundation for
suicide prevention to host the first annual hike for hope in Oregon, to help ease the stigma
around suicide. >> if it's meeting someone that's kind of walked the same path you've walked,
so you don't feel so alone, that's a good thing. >> deb: her goal is to give people a place to
connect in an area her daughter loved. nature. >> any time you're getting people together that
are also talking about mental health, or -- it's kind of helping with the stigma of suicide and
mental health. just being able to have conversations what is really what all afsp is about. >>
deb: the hike for hope is May 25th at tryon creek state park, and we have information at
katu.com. >>> experts say one of the best things you can do if you are in a mental health crisis
is to talk to somebody. there rah always people standing by at the national lifeline, their
number is 1-800-273-talk. you can also text "home" to 741741, or chat online at
suicidepreventionlifeline.org. org.
KLSR (FOX)
Apr 19 • 1:04 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_183

Oregon does not require agencies to evaluate job applicants before they become officers, new
legislation would change all of that. a recent study found that nationwide more officers died by
suicide in 2017 than died in the line of duty. one study found up to 23% of officers surveyed
abuse alcohol. three times the national average. two bills, one requiring all law enforcement
agencies in Oregon to psychologically look at job applicants behavior they become officers and
create standards for that. meanwhile, the other bill that they cosponsor called for law
enforcement agencies to establish mental health wellness policies. both would require agencies
to pay for the evaluations and those policies themselves. state lawmakers are looking to expand
in-state tuition for undocumented students. it is under senate bill 859 that passed yesterday.
and now it is on its way to the Oregon house floor.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 19 • 9:35 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_184

In today's kind is better report a local mother who lost a child to suicide is trying the change the
conversation. >> and she is starting by getting people outside. her daughter died by suicide last
year after struggling with deep depression. her mother says for a long time it was difficult to
talk about, but part of the problem is not talking about it. to help erase that stigma she joined
the association for suicide pro pri venges. >>> if it's meeting someone that's kind of walked the
same path you've walked so you don't feel so alone. >>> the hike for hope is May 25 at tryon
creek near lake oswego. we have more information on our website. >>> if you are going there a
mental health crisis there's always someone to help. call the national lifeline anytime day or
night. you can also home to 741741 or chat online is prevention lifeline.org.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 19 • 10:10 AM

B_Apr_Wash_68

135

26 years ago today that standoff between federal agents and religious cult in central Texas
ended in the worst possible way ABC you're right I was there they told 1919 _ninety_ _three_
the compound outside Waco burned to the ground a fierce wind swept the countryside on
Dave 51 the standoff as the FBI used tanks to poke holes into the branch Davidians building and
to inject tear gas just after new moon I can't tell you the shock and horror that all of us felt
when we saw those flames coming out there the FBI is Bob bricks on the day of the fire it was
all my God they're killing themselves survive big dividends blame the federal agents for the
blaze the government called a mass suicide that claimed the lives of 17 children more than 70
adults and called leader David.
KEZI (ABC)
Apr 19 • 2:22 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_185

a big honor for a eugene teenager, who's working to change the stigma surrounding teen
suicide. carson lydon received the "kiwanis everyday hero award" yesterday at the laurelwood
golf course. we first introduced you to the sophomore at Churchill, when he raised more than
17 thousand dollars for the American foundation for suicide prevention. he was honored with
the "highlight of hope" award for that... from the national non-profit "youth era".
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 19 • 6:41 PM

B_Apr_Wash_69

we'll hear more about the rise in the rate of suicide among our youth and what some of them
are doing about it that's next Aaron KUOW support for you w comes from northeastern
university we're experiencing night's learning and discovery across its global university system
campuses in Boston London Toronto and in Seattle northeastern. 80 use flash experience this is
we could win a lot of people are thinking about youth suicide 7 young people aged 17 and
under have taken their lives in king county so far this year as youth suicide rates rise we want to
focus on how people are responding you w's deborah long reports on a recent gathering of
teens who are working to save lives the day begins with a room full of students making lists
harry brown leads the exercise is a mental health counselor for the mercer island school district
and asked the students one of the most pressing problems they see their schools art it wants
word anxiety substance abuse and eating disorders depression and lack of resources here an
academic pressure locked himself care social media and healthier accepted an unhealthy
relationships for lacking sleep stress this I think the lists are long depression and anxiety are
most of them as stress as students pin their list to the wall brown acknowledges the obvious
that it can be hard to be a teenager today French version of Charles fly these kids come from all
over Seattle shoreline auburn oak non in mount Sinai they're part of a program developed by 4
French suicide prevention at the university of Washington the goal is to reduce the incidence of
suicide by improving the mental health climate and schools you want to change the entire
culture in your school like how do you do next we do that from the ground up feed detail hard
is the forefront of the school's coordinator a big focus is educating students about mental
health and train them to be responsive to mental health challenges among their peers because
136

when kids struggle they may not seek help from adults in definitely have a fraction of students
who feel isolated who feel that this isn't something I can devolved to an adult and so I’m just
going to tell my friend so on this day the students giving presentations on the work they've
been doing in their schools is competition the students themselves will pick a winner over the
past years student teams participated in marches they've done random acts of kindness they've
leaflet dead and they've held educational events but the team was declared this year's winner
was the one with the powerful personal story dominic janssen is a member of the muckleshoot
tribe and a senior at the muckleshoot tribal school his project grew out of his struggles when he
was younger kid his feelings of isolation loneliness and depression. and I again confidence
Austin decide what kind of muscle from the easiest fastest we all hold without during high
school Dominic lost a friend to suicide student ravens Stevenson also experienced a similar loss
of a friend she looked up to and it was really hard because I was always trying to live up to what
she is because she was like that person had a score in she got things I dealt with so that was
really hard then dominate heard a third grader was feeling suicide title and hit him really hard
that's when he decided to form a peer mentoring group he recruited raven and 4 other high
schoolers they meet with middle schoolers were struggling who need help in school or who just
want comfort here's rape and so this project means a lot to everybody that's what that's the 6
of us we all have our own easing for doing it and it's week wanted to allow for our community
and for the kids in our schools because quickly evolved their efforts are especially noteworthy
and community that's deeply affected by suicide native Americans Alaska natives have the
highest suicide rate of any group it's impossible to say whether these sorts of activities will
work in preventing suicides forefront in the schools is only in its 4th year and organizers say
they're still studying outcomes but feeding tear cars says it's based on the theory that suicide
prevention needs to be thought about differently it can't just be a single workshop or speech or
curriculum it's about making mental health an ongoing focus of kids' lives for kayode heavy
news I’m ever wrong in Seattle if you or a loved one is struggling with thoughts of suicide please
reach out and seek help we have links to resources on our website.
KAPP (ABC)
Apr 19 • 7:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_70

…and 2015, the number of children and teens who went to an emergency room for suicidal
thoughts or attempts doubled. it increased from nearly 600,000 people in more than one
million in the u-s, according to Jama pediatrics. in benton county alone, 54 people died by
suicide -- a record high for the area. and according to lourdes counseling center... social media
is playing a part in that. (cameron fordmeir/lourdes counseling center "a lot of momentum
behind spring time media and social media affecting and negative ways in peoples' lives,
especially when you're younger and impulsive. so it's a good thing if they're coming and seeking
help. it's a bad thing if they're not and acting on that so it goes both ways.") and acting on that
so it bad thing if they're not and seeking help. it's a bad thing if they're not and acting on that so
it goes both ways.") the data for 2018 in benton and franklin counties is not yet available. if you
or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts... you can call the lourdes crisis center
at 509-943-9104.

137

88.5 KNKX
Apr 19 • 7:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_71

but there's another aspect to school safety that gets less attention and generally less funding
for mental health prevention pen trump says this is just as important the schools need to look
for early warning signs of children who have emotional behavior girl mental health concerns no
well again no I agree it's I am aid school counselor at columbine high school she was also a
columbine student 20 years ago I think this year in particular in my own grief process of still
processing what happened on april 20th I think I’m feeling more of a calling it to you really be
mindful of the mental health problems and by god she means everything from kids struggling
with anxiety trama and suicidal thoughts two kids becoming potential threats I see little things
that can be concerning like you're having a hard time controlling your anger you have a lot of
rage built up from things that have happened in your past you don't have a lot of support in
your life and no one specific threats are concerns do come up there are red flags systems in
place like threat assessment teams and anonymous tipline to get students helped way before
there are some sort of crisis many of these measures were put in place in colorado because of
columbine like safe to tell a website and app geared toward students where people can report
concerns colorado's launched in 2004 and last school year or 16000 tips came in several other
states have similar programs but many experts say it's not enough mental health services and
counselors are stretched thin I have my caseload of 350 students and I care about every single
one of them and I won I think that if there's something we can do preventative we can always
find this path to redemption and positivity.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 19 • 10:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_72

A call about an attempted suicide has turned into a homicide investigation Tacoma on Thursday
police were called North Pearl Street near North 11th Street mean Joyce Smith said her fiancé
shot himself they were fighting over gun Joshua ever died at the hospital from his injuries new
documents investigators say her story a matchup with the evidence ever shot in the left side of
the head was right-handed detectives say the gun was about a foot away from him when he
was shot Smith has now been charged with first degree murder.
KAPP (ABC)
Apr 19 • 11:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_73

startling numbers from the c-d-c. between 2007 and 2015, the number of children and teens
who went to an emergency room for suicidal thoughts or attempts doubled. it increased from
nearly 600,000 people in more than one million in the u-s, according to Jama pediatrics. in
Benton alone, 54 people died by suicide -- a record high for the area. locally, Lourdes crisis
services is one of the many resources there to assist those in need. amon fordmeir/lourdes
counseling center "there's always help. it's never too late or too soon, so if we could get ahead
of something, great. if it's in the thick of the weeds and there's a crisis occurring, there's still
hope for that time too. there's never a bad time to reach out.") the data for 2018 in Benton and
138

franklin counties are not yet available. if you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal
thoughts... you can call the Lourdes crisis center at 509-783-0500.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 20 • 12:00 AM

B_Apr_Wash_74

an annual public display aims to raise awareness of the number of military veterans commit
suicide every day in the U.S. on average 19 veterans and one active duty military member died
by suicide each day uses the Department of veterans Affairs on the steps of the Minnesota
state capital Friday 100 pairs of military style boots each holding a flower in an American flag as
they do each spring but it's likely in France an effort by David Peters veterans organization
urging more government resources it needs to become a priority not just lip service Stacy
Burnett whose daughter Nicole an Army private took her own use and my nephew like for
somebody else or somebody else was trapped she calls Metro suicides an epidemic.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 20 • 2:00 AM

B_Apr_Wash_75

tonight, a heartbroken mother is trying to make sense of her son's murder, releasing his
girlfriend told detectives it was an attempted suicide but now she is charged with killing him. >>
that is one of the stories still developing on feet at this hour, it wasn't until detectives started
digging inside the Tacoma apartment that they uncovered a different story than the one the
man's fiancc we just spoke with his mother, tammy? >> reporter: josh everyone's mom is
devastated and confused as she didn't know about any issues but when detectives were first
told that he tried to kill himself, inside their home, she knew something wasn't right because he
has so much to live for. >> he's the big boss. every time a look at that baby I see my son. >>
reporter: all that is left our memories of a proud father with his baby boy. police say Joshua
ammerman was shot in the ahead inside his home and later died at the hospital. his mom
bonnie is trying to make sense of it. >> this is my favorite middle child and he is gone. >>
reporter: Tacoma police say at first his girlfriend told them josh tried to kill himself, but
detectives say the words and what they saw did not add up. >> I told her point blank josh would
not commit suicide. >> reporter: according to court documents to take of say josh was righthanded yet he had been shot on the upper left side of his head. at least a foot away. now nina
smith has been charged with his murder. lease say the four-month-old baby was in the room
and the four-year-old daughter was in the home. >> what I can say I don't thing I can say on
camera. I will say I hope they throw the book at her. >> reporter: courts say a restraining order
had been filed against the girlfriend in March, but it was withdrawn just a week before the
shooting. >> don't let it get this far. don't ever let it get this far, he's just a very warm loving
person. and that is gone. >> reporter: now josh's mom is taking care of his baby boy and as for
smith she is in jail on a million-dollar bond.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 20 • 8:05 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_186

139

Today marks 20 years since the attack Colorado’s columbine high school 12 students and a
teacher were killed there will be a remembrance ceremony of a park near the school bringing
an end to these 3 days a ceremony honoring the victims meanwhile Colorado undersheriff who
led the search for the young Florida woman whose actions prompted authorities to tighten
security this week told the denver post newspaper that she likely killed herself before police
launched a manhunt. Authorities had alleged that she was obsessed by shooting at columbine
high school.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 20 • 9:02 AM

B_Apr_Wash_76

in Minnesota an annual gathering and display is once again putting the spotlight on the number
of military veterans who commit suicide each day in the U.S. NBC'S Chuck secrets and with
more on average 19 veterans and one active duty military members died by suicide each day
uses the Department of veterans Affairs on the steps of the Minnesota state capital Friday 100
pairs of military style boots each holding a flower in an American flag as they do each spring
with its echoes of France an effort by David Peters veterans organization urging more
government resources It Is to become a priority not just lip service Stacy Berg whose daughter
Nicole an Army private took her own shouldn't have it like for somebody else or somebody else
she calls veteran suicides an epidemic.
News Radio KEX
Apr 20 • 9:18 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_187

House democrats introduced legislation aimed at addressing an uptick in veteran suicides at
v.a. facilities but ABC elizabeth the blokland reports that two leading veterans group wants
more a group called American that trend ask the inspector general of the v.a. the department
of defense and department of health and human services to immediately launched the
investigation after 3 veterans committed suicide v.a. facilities over a 5 day span this month the
latest tragedy was just last week in Austin Texas that trend killing himself in a crowded v.a.
waiting room last month president trump signed an executive order which tass agency official
with developing a strategy to aggressively tackle the issue of veteran suicide man they say
spread of measles virus it's estimated that 20 veterans commit suicide to dozens of people
according to the every day.
88.5 KNKX
Apr 20 • 9:40 AM

B_Apr_Wash_77

More than 65 100 people were forced into addiction treatment last year and massachusetts
and the last fiscal year that is believed to be the highest involuntary treatment rated the
nation's of the many states are expanding for treatment deborah becker members stationed w
br reports the massachusetts program is facing criticism among those asking massachusetts to
change its civil commitment practices is robin wallace of cape cod she went to court in 2017 to
ask a judge to involuntarily commit her than 33 year-old son sean because of this heroin use his
140

behavior was a radical I think he had a moute health issues that worsened by his use the judge
agreed that on substance use was dangerous and ordered him committed to up to 90 days of
residential treatment in court son told his mother he was being sent to a program where he
would be locked up and not allowed to continue taking his addiction medications methadone I
thought that he misunderstood with the judge said because I couldn't conceive that there
would be an an opioid treatment program did not provide medication assisted treatment turns
out john was right although many providers same medication is the gold standard in addiction
treatment son was sent to the program in a state prison that does not provide when we spoke
with assad in 2017 shortly after he spent about a month committed he said the conditions were
inhumane and he was often placed in segregation or the hole and remember he had not
committed any crime was punished for not using the time of the whole viewers usual trey they
consider to be a real issue I didn't know that I’m just sick son also said he was having trouble
adjusting I just feel different and a lot more things I feel scared I feel him away cup be back
there less than a year after that interview shot and killed himself robin Wallace says after a civil
commitment shone could no longer hold the job he ended up in a psychiatric hospital and then
was jailed on charges of trying to break into a house robin Wallace believes that being locked
up for addiction treatment can attributed to sean suicide I think that his trauma was very much
triggered by him being in the cell and that he just felt like he couldn't take it anymore the
sheriff wouldn't comment but jailed documents confirm that shun tried to take his life there he
later died of his injuries sons long-time partner heather mcdermid says he was never the same
after his civil commitment he was like a big sad to press to learn that I was trying to bring back
to life we get home we ultimately it's like I can't believe we got yeah he does it with the
Massachusetts department of correction wouldn't go on kate for this story but emailed
statement saying that its mission is to promote public safety by providing a secure treatment
environment many families believe that lock setting is needed diniz fell hand says families are
desperate and can't rationalize with a loved one who's in the throes of addiction she believes
involuntary commitment save her _thirty_ _three_ year-old son and couldn't elaborate on what
attracts company you like it I in no way am I really am weir and actor kirk trying to save the
child's life there's so much demand for forced treatment in Massachusetts that 100 more beds
opened in another jail last year this year is sorrow section 35 zlotys or bowl win handed county
sheriff nick coach she says many traditional treatment centers are willing to take patients who
don't want to be there and was declining inmate population they ezra this is a very dangerous
but a huge think in I would say not so well behaved population many states are going down the
same road as massachusetts but some researchers likely ocalan scheme northeastern university
same more families are choosing to have loved ones locked up because it's the only way to get
that immediate treatment limiting someone's civil rights should be a last resort and should be
reserved for those cases that harbor truly dire are the Massachusetts law may change a classaction lawsuit is charging gender discrimination because the state stops sending involuntarily
committed women to prisons in 2016 after a different lawsuit.

141

FM News 101 KXL
Apr 20 • 3:40 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_188

the summary of a Washington post investigation published a lengthy look at the issue of
reading directly from the summary of this citing statistics that showed there were 19 suicides
on v.a. campuses 7 in parking lots from October 28 17 through November 2018 touch suicide
but what seems to be a common theme says this summary is the veterans felt abandoned by
the system that was supposed to protect them and make them better his quotation the
Washington post story quote I bet if you look at the 20 choose suicides a day you will see d.a.
screwed up in 90% 55 year-old veteran Jim turner marine colonel broke in his suicide note left
by his body a keen meaning Jim turner committed suicide this car at the say Petersburg Florida
v.a. hospital well I’m not going to try to delve into the obvious pain that that really colonel
experienced but let me let me tell you how we are just into this with a calm main directly on
that is he onto something myself something let me give you a statistic to tell you why the 90%
doesn't make sense every day 20 veterans take their own lives to 3 of those on active duty and
several others were in the car never been deploying most cases 14 of those 20 people who've
never had contact with fiat the give an example the last of those veterans per capita than any
state more than half it's the veterans in the state of Alaska or outside of yeah and why is that
well last certainly one of those places where Americans can go to get away from side move your
head and people make choices I once last October I want to see the Alaska federation of natives
I ask to double the number of tribal representatives specializing in v.a. they have to get out into
the wilderness and help us find those that is west los Angeles and other kids our oldest
veterans population highest rate of homelessness highest-rated suicide the best majority of the
veterans in a west los Angeles who take their own lives from the Vietnam era many of them
have problems that began to build with Lyndon Johnson was pressed model that Washington
post story of the procedures that we have in place to try to prevent those 19 what it didn't say
that there were 200 _forty_ _three_ interventions on campuses at those at that same time
where we were able to stop a veteran from committing suicide the other thing to say is that
many of those veterans home to v.a. for whatever reason to to take their lives but they do
having told us notes that they want to do because they knew he would do something to help
their families there's nothing that ties all of them together other than sadness and that's why I
now the head the national task force on suicide prevention we talk a little bit more sure that
but it sure woke the end because I look at the clock we're going to pause right here that want
to set something up and ask questions and petrov we've gotten so a major recharge brown's
blood is almost done a spectacular Robert Willkie secretary of veterans affairs our guest.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 20 • 5:44 PM

B_Apr_Wash_78

our special guest veterans Affairs Secretary Robert Willkie we were having a conversation we're
going to continue the conversation on veterans and suicide look anyone who has been close to
the tragedies suicide knows is deeply complex there is no one single we are rarely is there one
single reason foreign aid is among the most gripping the dramatic and horrible event second fall
anyone I know more about this than I would like to not my family but was and Dear friends so I
142

want to take this seriously I don't want to simplify it in a way that insults what this is actually
about and during the break the secretary saying it's part of a continuum there are things that
people who are veterans who commit suicide either in her heart the heart of the system
outside the system talk to me about what you mean about this continues well we confront 3
you very serious issues their national Issues but for veterans their impact is amplified by the
number of veterans experience homelessness opioid addiction and suicide I believe we've had
too much of a one-off response treaty that Syria as opposed to treating the holistic and I’m now
the head of the National Task Force that the President created on suicide but I am taking a deep
look at those other issues and how can we create a whole of government whole society
approach V.A. alone cannot answered mental health issues I mean we're not even at the
Sputnik stage trying to get our arms around what goes wrong and right that's why I need the
Department of defense and the N.I.H. and HHS and hugged to come together and bring their
greatest talent said the table in order to come back this my view is that at the end when it
comes to the new approach we will send resources to the States and localities to
nongovernmental organizations in many cities in the country and new ones being the
cooperation between the city of new Orleans and Catholic charities is eliminated veterans and
is limited in that said same thing in Jacksonville all I just talked to the mayor of abilene Texas
they've lived the their models there are a lot of things that can be study and applied elsewhere
used that same monologue relief for suicide she now we're not divorced V.A. from the
problems that impact the rest of America's Health says there's a shortage of mental health
professions across the country and we've been able to hire quite a few but by the President
signing the reform legislation gives me a greater leeway in terms of relocation pay paying
people outside of normal federal pay scales I want to expand my ability to pay off a medical
student debts Soto like of veterans peace Corps and have people commit to D.A. in exchange
for pups relieving them of the burden come into the system and being healthcare has some of
that I want to go back to historically black colleges places like more House and say art
institution is open to residents in order to buttress the numbers of medical professionals that
general bradley general Eisenhower had a vision and the postwar world that 70 to 80% of all
medical professionals and country would come through the and Bradley himself established the
universe relationships Yeah we're far short of what we are short of factor of God no not that
much a half actually I have Yeah if you go to North Carolina Doron of V.A. is connected to one of
the world's two or 3 most prominent medical schools do as wake forest I hate to say I but Duke
is there in in West Los Angeles the connection is to ucla.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 20 • 6:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_189

It's been 20 years since two gunmen attacked columbine high school in Littleton Colorado
meeting 12 students and a teacher dad this week several events were held to remember those
who died and those who were injured tonight family of victims and community members are
gathering at columbine memorial and here's Jamie held has more vigil caps off 3 days of
commemorative events honoring the 12 students and one teacher killed in the attack beyond
raises in 1980 graduate of the school we are also reflect about our lives have changed over the
last 20 years and what we are doing now moving forward community members held t lights at
143

columbine memorial inclement part of those stonewall and grove of trees meant to be a place
of peace comfort and reflection but earlier in the week residents across the Denver metro area
were put on edge when an armed 18 year-old woman said to be infatuated with columbine it
pack travel to Denver prompting the closure of schools on Wednesday she was later found
dead of an apparent suicide.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 20 • 7:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_79

a Tacoma woman is now accused of killing her fiancé after claiming he shot himself, nina smith
said that her fiancé Joshua attempted suicide after they got into a fight on Thursday, she
claimed he shot himself when she left the room, he later died in the hospital. the police now
say her story doesn't make any sense. court documents show Joshua was right-handed, and he
was shot in the left side of his head from a foot away. >> I said josh did not commit suicide.
what I said, I don't think I can say on camera, I hope they throw the book at her. >> a restraining
order was filed against smith just one week before that shooting. police say their four-monthold son and her four-year-old daughter were both at home at the time, Joshua’s mother is now
taking care of the baby, smith is in jail on $1 million bond.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 20 • 7:05 PM

B_Apr_Wash_80

I’m here today to share project 99's mission, which is a suicide prevention non-profit
organization. we're here to share that everyone matters and share the story of my classmate
Diego who took his life in 2015, and we really want to make sure that we don't lose students to
suicide and show how it devastated our entire community. - I learned that we need to be able
to recognize the signs of suicide and that we need to be more involved and pick them up in
people's lives as much as possible. we need to be involved. we need to make friends with the
people that are sitting by themselves at the lunch table, the new kids. you need to make as
many friends as you possibly can. - I’m extremely talented at this thing. I really don't like, I’m
gonna get better at it because it's gonna help me with the thing I do love. I’m here because
growing up as a child I didn't get their right influences and the right voices in my environment,
so I’m inspired to help a lot of people achieve their level of success by giving them the right
information and motivation that they need to achieve their full potential. - I think they get a
sense of empowerment, because a lot of times it feels hard to have your teen voice heard and
to feel like you're really making a difference in your community, but sadd connects students
with other students. it enables them to participate in a peer-to-peer program that really makes
them feel like they're making a change in their community. and they are.
News Radio KEX
Apr 22 • 6:02 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_190

Oregon physician assisted suicide law would change under a building of 98 x is brad ford says
his past the Oregon house organs dr. assisted suicide law would be changed so medications
144

other than those taken orally could be used for representative mike newman opposes it should
be focusing on providing medical care and comfort for all Oregonians represented paul evans
supports saying it would help patients is not change the intent of the bill it makes it more
functional nations would still be required to administer medication on their own the bill now
moves to the senate.
KFXO (FOX)
Apr 22 • 7:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_191

Suicide can be a very sensitive topic many people have trouble talking about deschutes county
health services wants to help each of the deschutes county school districts is partnering with
suicide prevention programs to have public conversations about suicide prevention. it's called
hope help, heal parents can learn how to find resources in the community supporting youth,
adults and families I stressful time mental health experts, student panels, and parents of suicide
victims will be there to teach about their experiences. ## "talking about suicide is really
important and making sure that the conversations is really -- the conversation has hope and
resources infused throughout the conversation is really important because community
members and young people in our community to feel empowered and that there are resources
here for them and that help is here and folks are not alone in deschutes county. there were two
suicide prevention programs held last month in lapine an sister there will be two more this
week. one is scheduled for tomorrow at 5 p-m mountain view high school in bend. the other is
on Thursday at 5-30 p-m Ridgeview high school in Redmond. healthy beginnings helped
organize these conversations and is a 21 cares for kids partner.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 22 • 11:09 PM

B_Apr_Wash_81

in Washington depression affects more than 16 million Americans each of whom has unique
journey to finding treatments that work finding what works and often involve lots of trial and
error but what if you don't find anything that works all trial all your it can be scary to give up
searching for solutions especially when depression can be severe enough to threaten your life
so imagine the relief of finding treatment even an unconventional one as one mother told us in
our in-box it does I mean from Virginia mike college-age son has a separate probe treatment
with different depression for years now this winter he tried that I mean ketamine infusions he
did for confusion over purely period at first we didn't see any change theft q week we marked
reduction in the and them it given him the life back recently the food and drug administration
approved a new drug based on can mean to treat depression it's called escapes me sold the
nasal spray called spring votto can mean I’ve bees have been used to treat depression for years
as well as to cause euphoric highs as a party drug take a pill what led the fda to approve the
new medication why is it so hard to find an anti-depression regimen that works and what kind
of difference has that made in patients' lives joining us from Houston public media is Alison
levitt she wrote about her experience taking head mean for the website vox she's also a writer
who covers medicine Alice walker to oneay hello oh joining us from Harvard is dr gary sacks an
assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard medical school professor sax welcome pleasure to
145

be with you and w s h you public radio in Fairfield Connecticut is dr dmitry populist the codirector of the program in behavioral genetics at the Albert Einstein college of medicine he has
prescribed can mean for his patience but to publish glad to have you with us glad to be here
before we dive in we should be clear this information may help you or a loved one thinks
through your options for dealing with depression but nothing will discuss today is a substitute
for direct diagnosis and treatment plan from your own psychologist or psychiatrist alice live let
me start with you. How did you find out that she had depression what was that journey like
well I i had a mild depression from the time I was about 5 and sell it was just in my state I was
kind of a depressive person which it's hard to tell all for a lot of people because I am upbeat
visibly but I i always had an undercurrent and it was in my late 20s bed it started getting more
severe and in 2013 it got to the point that I was starting to have suicidal thoughts and I treated
with orioles and everything I tried every anti-depressant really over about a decade and nothing
worked and in the past couple of years I had suicidal thoughts every day and so it really got to
the point that something had to give and but said nothing works Allison did they work to any
degree or do you take them and find no change how much did they work if even if it didn't work
complete it was hard to tell because you had there is always some much hope that it you
wonder oh maybe it's working a little bit but it never worked to appoint vetted I felt like I
should feel I want to talk more about your experience with ketamine just a moment first let's
get some basic information dr sacks tell us what can it mean it is exactly some people know as a
party drug but what is it ketamine is a molecule that interacts with and mda receptors the user
excited tory your transmitters in the brain and when we talk about can mean we're actually
talking about he mixture of those two right-handed for war room of the ball shoal we might
refer to as our ketamine and the left-handed which would be academy and that is really what
people like alice scott when they got an idea they got the mixture what you mean by righthanded left handed his afternoon with the structure of molecules on and yeah you know it's
just like if you put your hands side by side there aren't right I’m all for both fans have 5 fingers
they look the same but there are mirror images of each other in nature many molecules
especially a lot of the drugs we used to have left and right handed for arms and some of them
actually have very different activity from each other sometimes it's all the benefit is conveyed
by one sometimes both had benefits sometimes one has most of the side effects dutch
populous you've been working with ketamine for some time with your patience talk about the
process that goes into deciding to treat someone with ketamine from when they approach she
do in need of care when they actually get the treatment was that process like will do we've
been studying a particular form of treatment persistent mood disorder in children for the last
10 years and come identified form had biological marker which is a temperature of regulation
he misses you the most severe form of the disorder there wasn't responsive to any medications
that were tried and and based on what we knew about the specific symptoms of the condition
to them where temperature this regulation and what and fear sensitization we found ketamine
in animal studies had enough facts to both improve reduce fears sensitization and also dose
dependent lee and improve some regulation 10 years ago when there was nothing else we
began trying can mean in cases that were unresponsive to anything else in that had a profound
effect that point we where we started using internet so kevin mean leave they could receive
make and model old are the best forms of a combination of both a of the top judge one back up
just one second I saw no we're clear you said that if I’m hearing you correctly there are some of
146

the patients children we work with who had formed a depression that also manifested with
symptoms like but not being able to quite regulate body temperature and the temperature was
off as kind of a side effect of what they were dealing with and you were able to treat them
through these through a nasal spray and it showed promise that it helped them with the
symptoms and with the underlying depression my hearing right will yes I would say more than
showed promise it was transformational the first child we treated it was 8 years old who had
severe psychotic symptoms separation anxiety had render sleep disorder with nightmares night
terrors after the first treatment who with ivy ketamine which is what she received in a dentist's
office who was willing to administer it to her she was having dental procedure she had a
phenomenal response and was symptom-free for two weeks after about 3 hours after getting
the ground and subsequently we began using internet is kevin mean on a regular basis because
it was really not it's practical to user intervene as kept me on a regular basis dr. populous give
me a sense of the people who come to you or to providers in general for treatment with
ketamine I imagine that the folks that you've dealt with have kind of bend at the end of their
rope for lack of another way to talk about they tried everything else they're running out of
options and they're just looking for one more avenue that might work.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 22 • 11:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_82

… what we found in children and adults we've been treating is that over time people develop a
tolerance for the most part to be acute side effects aon are able to tolerate it fairly well over
time so um I think Indiana I think it does matter whether you had lot of experience how you
administer it that's one of the problems among a number of problems with ps ketamine his said
because the fda has been so afraid of diversion of the drug gather Janssen was put in the
position to market they had to create this really all of these groups to go through which
included room waiting for two hours after you've taken ahead in doctors' offices only allowing
doctors to prescribe it on with a guy with a generic ketamine the one that's being used the one
that has been used for years and I be treatment and what we've been using one it may actually
be more potent them vs ketamine from animal studies that have been recently there were
published but also on a good get it is on it the way you can administer of pescatore mean you
give up 3 different dosage forms the highest one is 84 milligrams I believe something blue we
treat require up to 250 milligrams but we gradually get there and kind of a customized
proposed approach professor sachs if you can answer a question from sharing who asked can
append address whether there's a difference in efficacy between the ivy in the nasal spray
administration Kevin is one more effective than the other yeah I don't think that there has been
a head to head but as stuck couple was saying there are dose response occurs that we can see
and an equal amount of kauai be and internet is okay I mean ought to have a roughly similar
kind of responses glad to hear from several of you who have either used ketamine are thinking
about it I lean road I had severe suicidal depression I actually tried to gouge my wrist while
hospitalised that was when I was set for a vote for e.c. t electro convulsive therapy it did help
tremendously without it I would probably be dead now however it hurt my memory I am now
under tacit key which is the first antidepressant killed has helped by would be willing to try
cantor mean if I could Chelsea but our Facebook page Alice’s piece inspired me to see ketamine
147

infusions from my treatment resistant depression within a week my suicide mentality was a
distant memory I’ve been shouting my success story from the roof tops the only question that
remains in my mind is the maintenance infusions what is the research show about the need for
subsequent infusions after the initial 6 appointments professor sax could you answer the
question yeah you know I always answer really based on my personal experience referring
patients as a consultant to canning clinics largely and in doing that they have definitely been
patients who have had a response within the first couple weeks who stopped and have
sustained the benefit for going one year now but I would say be that is roughly 80 out of about
18 patients that we prefer for ketamine so it's not everybody who's going to get done and there
is concern that there won't be a requirement for repeated treatments and some data that has
suggested that the fact of ketamine can be blocked by the kinds of drugs that also block opiate
the facts and that there is a risk of dependency that's why they're all these hoops that the fda
has put in place to monitor ketamine use Alice what was it like for you finding a provider who
could you can imane treatments for you we've got some questions in terms of access julie
tweeted the only problem is it's hard to get treatment if you can't afford to go to the doctor
what was your experience like in terms of finding a provider affording the treatments and saw
well I fell right into it because I had done a story about a seat he had the men anger clinic
where I did my treatment and so when I realized that I needed something besides drugs I called
men anger and spoke to the doctor there who at the time was just a coffee and I am I said I
need to do something I’m interested in head I mean he really preferred the idea of prescribing
need c.t. at the time and so I had argued with him all that and he eventually said of hair after
two treatments if it works we'll continue with ketamine otherwise it will be a ct by in Houston
at least there are a number of clinics that do ketamine only but that always made me a bit
nervous so it was my it a good but what I oh well I am I think that if you have a doctor
prescribes it and doesn't administer themselves and it's not too scary but there's also the
option I believe people just going in and doing it so that seems like not the best idea I would
definitely say speak to more than one doctor if you can to make the decision I wonder what
other factors also considered al assir in terms of your overall mental health Kelly wrote
personally meds really mess with me I never even toyed with the idea of using meds because
they're be helped exorcise was also a huge factor in helping me move forward it's something I
believe everyone forgets to implement for mental health else I have a solid top I think if you've
got a bike and a screen yelling at you a battle I you yeah so I am I have done plenty of exercise
and that didn't help as a matter of fact as these endorphins released for me I would sometimes
by myself screaming event it had the opposite effect for me screaming so yeah I did that he
would just release as I was on the palate time and so it got to the point that I had to stop
exercising I was in so much psychic pain wow and so you really tried everything before you got
kennedy I really did yeah except the ct and thank goodness I didn't have to do that because my
concern as a better listener sad way it's losing my memory which is incredibly important to me
as a writer and so I was so lucky that I didn't have to contend with that and that way is not a
symptom with academy we'll continue our conversation just a moment by the way if you or
someone you know needs to talk to someone fears the number for the national suicide
prevention lifeline it's 800 to 7 3 talked 800.

148

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 22 • 11:58 PM

B_Apr_Wash_83

I have certainly tried therapy as hard as I could and I still continue to do their the and what's the
balance for us Allison terms of the benefit you get from fear be as opposed to the medications
you're taking well I am I am on medications right now my psychiatrist doesn't like the idea of
mean not being on medications probably ever I think my whole life I will be medicated but I i do
therapy every other week right now because I’m stable I didn't do that when I called a booster
of ketamine after 6 months and right now I met 7 months since then and I’m doing quite well so
if I need another booster am willing but I might not professor sachs what's next frontier in
terms of depression research would argue we are looking now to different kinds of medications
different kinds of psychological therapy is supposed to psychiatric therapies what the next
frontier enormous yeah I think it's all of the above josh when that's not to say that were coming
into an era where we're learning how to run the appropriate clinical trial for these different
kinds of treatments and there are a number of truly novel mechanisms being tested some very
innovative approaches to treatment and of course learning how to sequence them
appropriately you see the after we learn which ones work and which ones don't work and for
whom that's where the art of this will come alice how are you doing these days how's life for
you right now I’m doing very well right now I am I am working consistently freelance which way
is a change that I made when I was really depressed I needed to stop being a workaholic and
used to be a restaurant critic and so now I am devoting myself march writing about medicine
and things like cat meme and getting the word out but it it's really great to learn to take care of
myself and that's something I wouldn't have been able to do when I was seriously depressed so
it opened the door for me to live a normal life for someone who was dealing with severe
depression Alice this just beginning their journey to figure out what would work for them what
they need to do what would you suggest is anyone big piece of advice he would give them
research research anything you do I think it's important but especially when you're dealing with
your own help you need to be here an advocate and so I believe in visiting multiple doctors
getting multiple opinions and really figuring out what's right for you not right for that the actor
and not a populist before we go what recommendations would you have I would agree with
would you tell us research researching get multiple opinions I think it's and also falling some
someone that you feel you have a report with particularly if you're going to be engaging in any
kind of therapy him those are those are the critical ingredient I think the professor sachs before
we go and just the one thing that I would add all of that when you're doing research is great
again opinions but there's no substitute for measure base guidance of were evaluating your
diet exercise plan you get on a scale every morning a doctor who can add formal measures or
you can do the more your own this will provide some of the very best guidance for the big
decision you have to make about your treatment dr. Gary sacks associate clinical professor of
psychiatry at Harvard medical school professor thanks for talking to us thank you the writer
alice 11 al thanks for sharing your story thank you so much dr Dmitry populous co-director of
the program behavior and genetics at the albert Einstein college of medicine thank you dr thank
you one more time the number of suicide prevention lifeline is 800 to 7.8 to 5 5 if you go to
suicide prevention lifeline dot org you can also check live online your specific resources for

149

youth native Americans lgbtq people see this see this you the latest you can go to suicide
prevention lifeline.com
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 23 • 1:39 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_192

We have been talking about mental health as our better together initiative. some high school
students today took that discussion to the capital. they tested before law makers for bill 2191.
It makes it easy for students to call in for mental health issues. many schools don't recognise
mental health as a legitimate reason. the students said that needs to change. >> there is a
bigger problem at hand than students missing school, which is students taking their own life
into their own hands with risk of suicide and stuff like that. although absenteeism might go up,
it might save lives. that's well worth it. >>> in addition to several high school students, the chief
executive of behavioural health from providence health services also testify tied in support of
that bill. the better together is focusing on promoting mental health wellness. you can find
details on our website.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 23 • 8:21 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_193

bullying can happen anywhere at any time including the wealthiest neighborhoods and schools
care excels rosemary rental talk with the 23 old gay man from west planet who was looking for
a way out of a cruel world the story here only on KXL you're basically a happy kid and then
somebody put a label on you at age 11 Patrick was a pretty well-adjusted boy he had friends he
loved music art and trying out the latest coffee drink at Starbucks up the street from his house
middle school became a challenge that's where it clicks took over then it was Patrick’s French
class he did you pay if times name so for the rest of the time leno you in class when speaking
French you go by that name and I picked them I believe it was andre and there's not enough
time and andre and a girl on a class have picked the same the same name I am mater America’s
o how funny we have the same name and year with her prior as well you know at least I’m not
gay about and I think for most people of sexuality really isn't so much I think I mean I think you
always know but I did I is not really something that Europe is not in touch with side yeah
because you're not no such join insurer bush your reaction I mean I was kind of taken aback I
was like I’m not even thinking about sex with others and Patrick says from his is few points the
school's set the bar for all students without really realizing that on the surface of things looked
good they would fake a very typical suburban middle-class upbringing but underneath the
surface I think it was a lot of you have to fit the mold so if here he no girl the sense to me
commence zoe pretty grow up and become a cheerleader be on the dance team based here
boy exposed to get a sports and if not one of those two things I think it's it was very hard yeah
hat trick didn't tell his parents what happened and French class and he didn't really realize how
much she was hurting until one day he learned about a classmate who ended her life through
suicide

150

instead of going to mom and dad about it and talk about his feelings he went down a very dark
path I tried to hang myself my closet but I was able to break free and he co-wrote in need of a
toddler she fears sound yeah ones the gop on this floor and say knock it off I realized like oh
this is like a 10 minute movie there's no going back and night and it scared me and I was like
well what if what it is and how it's always going to be down maybe like stocks right now maybe
some for the next couple years but what about 10 years he really started to better
communicate with his parents to look for help for young in high school he got into his dad's
pain pills took them to school and share them that ended with his being expelled from
Westland high this family decided to send him to an alternative school that turned his life
around Patrick says this about suicide it fay permanent solution to a temporary problem
rosemary nl's Athens used one watt and you can hear more about patrick story and you are
flying which is a service for lines for life such an important thing to know you can find out any
information on KXL.com.
News Radio KEX
Apr 23 • 9:05 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_194

Oregon’s doctor-assisted suicide law could change under a bill that passed the Oregon house
currently only oral medication can be prescribed the bill would allow other medications state
representative mike year and says this bill and others being considered by the legislature go
against what the voters intended those who will be affected by these bills will be Oregonians
who wrote the most foremost pages of life it's a phoner supporters say not all patients have the
ability to take medications.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 23 • 3:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_195

In recent years, Oregon has taken legislative strides to reduce gun violence by keeping guns out
of the hands of potentially dangerous or vulnerable people. but Oregon’s gun deaths are still
higher than the national average: the majority those deaths are by suicide. >> "60 percent of
men who die by suicide use a firearm. so, it's something we need to get our hands around and
figure out in trying to prevent suicide" >> experts explain finding ways to separate individuals
from their means of death is a huge life saving measure. but how do we do that without making
gun safety a divisive topic? doctors say they need funding for research to find evidence for
viable policies and must engage with the community. >> "partner with gun owners to find
solutions to test and evaluate the solutions so we can have data that says what works and what
doesn't work." dr. kathleen carlson, associate professor, epidemiology, ohsu school of public
health. >> through education, engineering and enforcement: health professionals see a path
towards societal and behavioral change. in poranan elise haas, koin 6 news. >> if you are
someone you know is in distress or thinking of suicide. one of the best resources in Oregon is
lines for life. so take a look at the number on your screen right now. 800-273-8255 it is a 24/7
suicide help line that de-escalates more than 95 percent of their crisis calls. they have helped
tens of thousands of Oregonians get on a path to recovery.

151

News Radio KEX
Apr 23 • 3:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_196

Oregon's doctor-assisted suicide law would not be limited to oral medications under a bill
passed the Oregon house doctors can prescribe other types of medications state representative
carl wilson opposes the bill every life is precious and every time another life is precious favor of
president paul evans said not everyone can take oral medication and this gives patients other
options to making sure that people have a choice over their decisions over the way in which
they may pass stations would still be required to administer the minute medication on their
own the bill now moves to the senate.
KTVL (CBS)
Apr 23 • 9:02 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_197

Gun security was part of a larger discussion inside the multnomah there's club. what can be
done about firearm vile lens being a serious health crisis. the panel featured leading doctors,
moderated by lines for life CEO Dwight Holton. >> it's a largely medical community but a
broader community interested in seeing the gun issue not as a political thing, something a
source of strife, just a public health challenge that we need to meet. >> one of the biggest
challenges they focused on is the rate of suicide. Oregon ranks negatively in the top third
highest rates in the u.s. and the cdc says 51% of self-inflicted deaths are from gun. if kemp had
his way, he would make sure they don't illegally fall into the wrong hands with a national
universal background check. >> that's probably the simplest, easiest thing to enforce that will
have the biggest impact. >> impact an perception problem that kemp and the panelists say they
want to change. >> her 12-year-old daughter died by suicide after incessant bullying at the
school. the mother is filing a wrongful death lawsuit. brooklyn died in 2017. she left a note
saying she killed herself because of a bully at school. the district told "the Oregonian" it was
saddened by the death but didn't comment on the lawsuit. >> experts say the relationship
between bullying and suicide is complicated and that most kids bullied do not take their own
lives and that's important kids know that. we recently put together a 30-minute special
specifically about bullying, part of a statewide project to shine a light on the state suicide crisis.
you can see the whole thing breaking the silence or.com. experts say most mental health crises
are temporary and will pass. you can talk to someone by calling the national suicide prevention
lifeline. or by visiting suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KAYU (FOX)
Apr 24 • 1:01 AM

B_Apr_Wash_84

afternoon... peter what happened? good evening claire... law enforcement had a home several
miles up the street surrounded for several hours today.... where justin robertson barricaded
himself inside. tonight, that standoff ended when deputies say he shot and killed himself. it's
been a scary situation for this small town. the school district was on a modified lockdown for
hours... and several major roads in st. john had to shut down... while negotiators work with
robertson. family members say robertson was unstable. they told us he's been violent in the
152

past... but when his estranged wife served him divorce papers recently... it pushed him over the
edge. deputies say robertson showed up to her home in spokane valley early this morning...
and stabbed her several times. deputies then say he took his own son... against the boy's will...
prompting an amber alert. over the next 12 hours... deputies say he finally released his son...
and got into a standoff. here's what spokane county corporal mark gregory had to say. ever
since he released the child who was uninjured thankfully l..... he was discovered deceased
inside the residents. law enforcement and the forensics team are currently processing the
scene. the good news is the little boy wasn't hurt... and robertson's estranged wife is doing
better in the hospital. in st. john, I’m peter Maxwell fox first at ten.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 24 • 2:03 AM

B_Apr_Wash_85

New details tonight in the amber alert in Spokane county after a long standoff today. deputies
found the boy's father dead in an apparent suicide. Justin Robertson stabbed his estranged wife
in Spokane valley this morning and took off with their 5-year-old son. officers tracked them
south to a home in St. john in Whitman county. Robertson let his son go this afternoon. then
police believe he killed himself. the child is safe and wasn't injured. the mother is being treated
for serious injuries.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 24 • 4:52 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_198

Jennifer: Oregon health care professionals want to move beyond treating gun injuries and
prevent them from happening. in recent years, Oregon has tried to reduce gun violence by
keeping guns out of the hands of potentially dangerous or vulnerable people. but Oregon's gun
deaths are still higher than the national average. 80% of those deaths are by suicide. at a forum
today, doctors say they need funding for research to find evidence for viable policies and must
engage with the community to find answers. >> partner with a gun owner to find that we have
data that says what works and what does not work. jennifer: if you or someone you know is in
distress or thinking of suicide, one of the best resources in Oregon is lines for it is a 24/7 suicide
help line life. that de-escalates more than 95% of their crisis calls.
KONG-SEA
Apr 24 • 6:05 AM

B_Apr_Wash_86

our hearts are aching about the news. a 15-year-old boy Nigel reportedly committed suicide
after being a target of homophobic bullying. his story has caught the attention of several people
on social media who made tributes to him and called the committee for love and to protect our
young people. it is truly a sad story indeed in a tragic loss and our thoughts and prayers go out
to Nigel’s family. it is just difficult and young people need to save face. >> I have to say this, to
all you people on social media with all these negative and rude things to say, shame on you. this
was a child who lost his life because he felt like he had nowhere else to go and nowhere else to
turn and you're going to condemn this man and his family. shame, shame, shame on you and
153

you do not know Jesus and you need to be saved. >> all right. >> mother has spoken. >> yes,
she has. there is nothing else to say.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 24 • 8:32 AM

B_Apr_Wash_87

A 5-year old boy is safe this morning ... after he was taken from his Spokane valley home by his
father. police say that boy's father, "Justin Robertson", stabbed his estranged wife before
taking off with their son yesterday. Robertson refused to come out of a home in saint john,
Washington. after a long standoff ... deputies found the boy's father dead in an apparent
suicide. the boy's mother has serious injuries but is expected to survive.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Apr 25 • 7:22 AM

B_Apr_Wash_88

In the u.s. Virgin Islands many homes are still uninhabitable blue tarps cover the bruise on
others the tarps are the only cover from the rain that's a reality more than a year and a half
after two major back-to-back hurricanes toe war through the islands but the storms another
less visible impact from the mental health of island residents researchers doctors and
counselors in the virgin islands say it's showing up in higher rates of depression ptsd and suicide
from saint thomas and peers greg allen brings us the story the secure paul cos detainees middle
health counselor who's been working with children in public schools in the virgin islands since
the storms the back-to-back hurricanes the slope for a full recovery she says I had a big impact
we see a lot of those behaviors regress and his behavior is this special with a they want school
had been caught each we've earned it to use and dietetics we see a lot of frustration and
cognitive impairment focus max undisputed paul constantine trace it back to september of
2017 when to category 5 hurricane struck the virgin islands in a two-week period same
croisette john and st. thomas many lost their roofs and most of their possessions then went for
weeks without power or running water or reliable food supply many families were hit hard say
was a bit frustrating to have two quarters such a traumatic experience to the hurricanes not
having access to anything this mother says storms and recovery we've been harder on her 6
year-old son was just starting kindergarten because of concerns about their privacy she asked
we not use her name he was starting school at a chaotic time because many buildings were
damaged schools double their enrollment and with the two sessions day with each session
lasting 4 hours so for him he had to learn it out over in for appeared yet to meet new friends
and school so for him it wasn't where he was at his comfort that he was pretty much
disoriented she got counselling for her son and it's helped but many children have more serious
schools in the virgin islands returned to a normal schedule in october though some students
like these can crime junior high in st. thomas are now in modular classrooms prince will lease
afford charges along school walkways and students are congregating after a morning of taking
standardized test ice canadiens mona how was destined for court knows most of the 450 kids at
school by name a 35 year teaching veteran virgin islands schools she said she loves junior high
best expert at discover who they are with the disruption of hurricanes and year short class days
ford says students have fallen behind where they should be and behavior problems always
154

present have gotten worse where be one or two children 10 children in the classroom acting up
and you're trying to settle all these children we are also seeing an increase in children that need
mental health assistance children who need counseling who ate coping skills ford says she
doesn't know if it's because of the hurricanes the slow recovery we're all the free time students
had last year when they're on a half day schedule you see the behavioral issues she says in a
variety of ways they show up in a defiant to authority we have children who are sleeping in the
middle of the day they're tired you try to wake them up they become angry and maybe that's
what we're seeing a lot of anger and defiance I i believe that storms out of everything else has a
litter early woken up mental health issues here in the territory and I believe that people are
now seeking help beyond simon's accounts with insight psychological services says many of the
problem she sees are related to money and the high cost of everything after the storms from
food to fixing the roof and it has caused extreme hardship that equates to stress the quakes to
depression anxiety since the storm simon says there's been a dramatic increase in the number
of people seeking mental health counseling and government service centers homeless shelters
clinics and hospitals is it's like a flood gate has been opened up recent surveys of mental health
in the virgin islands confirm what individual counselors and teachers are saying one study
funded by the community foundation of the virgin islands found throughout the territory
stressed the hurricanes and the recovery is a significant health issue the rain michael with the
university of the virgin islands says levels of depression and post-traumatic stress researchers
found we're starting to so we're looking at 6 in 10 went deep presses same time is almost 6 in
10 with ptsd send tums those with figures for adults among the children surveyed more than
40% had symptoms of posttraumatic stress more than a year after the storm during michael
says another survey of high school students after the storms was even more disturbing we saw
some treat t high percentages of students who said they had thought about suicide youth risk
behaviors survey of virgin islands students 7th through 12th grade found that one in 12
reported they attempted suicide more than one in 5 said they thought about those are pretty
close to the national figures a suicidal thoughts among adolescents in the virgin islands a closeknit community were mental health isn't often discussed researchers suspected real numbers
may be even higher lori thompson a psychologist who sees patients at say comes as hospital to
in the first 6 months after the storm there's a significant spike and suicide attempts for many
she says he was related to the aftermath people mobbed their job it's a lot of them laughter
kyle being network that can analyze it magna sign that makes them that they felt they could
cope anymore thompson and other mental health professionals say they've been overwhelmed
by the demand for counseling and psychiatric care even before the storms the virgin islands
was woefully understaffed in regards to mental health just one full time one part-time
psychiatrist for the entire territory it's all in the parade gonna hold is not something that we've
had discussions about o the territories new governor albert brian says since the storms the
need has become critical meeting him to declare middle help state of emergency orders
intended to expedite recruiting and hiring a mental health professional brian says it's a local
medical crisis that's been years in the making this is the kind of crime in the dark kind of
community I know a lot of that is driven by the state you nostra size somebody that I would
pressure why you officers saw somebody who some type of personality disorder in many ways
the virgin islands is a paradise with his speeches and palm trees governor bryant says but fact is

155

it could be difficult to live in isolated community where costs are high may live in poverty and
hurricane recovery slowly drags dawn greg allen and pr news same time it's this is npr news.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 25 • 7:24 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_199

deb: the past five months, we've been bringing you stories about suicide survival and hope. it's
part of our ongoing project, "kind is better." and what we mean by that title is that you never
know what someone else is going through. even just a little kindness can go a long way. canby
high school is on the same page. canby high school is kicking off a week-long campaign called
"other shoes." we're really trying to get students to understand what it's like to walk in
somebody else's shoes, so they understand how it is to be kind to one another. >> I think it's
important because there's so many different people and types of people from all different
backgrounds at our school, and you never know what their circumstances are or where they're
coming from. >> deb: the staff held an assembly with a youth speaker to encourage kids to
practice being kind. >> ifn one takes anything away, I hope its kindness and character are skills
that can be taught and can be learned. >> deb: they hope to start a lasting culture around the
school and the community. >> canby and the community, and everything that's happening
here, the support system is there to help take what happens today and this week and have that
be a lifestyle of character building and kindness. >> we hope it doesn't just go away, but I think
it's going to take a lot of work. >> the culture of kindness will help people's mental health
overall, make for a better culture that maybe would prevent somebody from taking their life or
struggling with mental health. >> deb: I love that schools are encouraging this. we want to
remind you there are always people to talk to at the national lifeline. 1-800-273-talk. you can
get more information at suicidepreventionlifeline.org.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Apr 25 • 7:36 PM

B_Apr_Wash_89

Todd your pitch for today so it is one of the longest and largest study's ever done on mental
health it's a 13 yearlong study that examined 9711 participants from England's sponsored by
number of non-profits and carried an operation National health service NHS digital what it
shows is really alarming one 5th of all girls between the ages of 17 and 18 years old and
attempt a voice in the same age group in England who are suicidal or tried to harm themselves
does study in England but there's a lot of what we've seen United States in addition some of the
details of the study I think you want to know as parents as caregivers I'll tell you because I’ve
asked at least 10 caregivers to adolescence in in recovery for depression and anxiety what is the
common factor that causes kids end up in treatment from parents and now almost guarantee
you'll be surprised what I’ve learned player the details text Tod's story tonight.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 26 • 8:12 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_200

156

There are now 16 American States that ban conversion therapy practitioners and change a
person's sexual orientation or gender identity the people were supposed to be changed
conversion therapy is linked to higher rates of depression and suicide which helps to explain
why more than a dozen States are considering legislation to outlaw on top of the States that
already done so one of those States Georgia and Here's a fun one there Peter non rates just
don't died at me I am Peter punting is probably she did he and his husband Montee have a dog
named million cash hollow he was dining room is adorned with smiling pictures of the family I
wrote photos is your mom that's my momma my TV using our wedding but it took a lot of work
in time to get to this happy place when I was 15 my parents found in means workout magazine
that I had a 100 Grand conclusion They didn't talk to me about it my dad told me we're going to
go on a trip he didn't tell me where we were going on there has got to turn to him he said he
was going to take me to therapy center to deal with whatever weird sexual stuff I had going on
and that if it didn't work he was going to need to military school to make a man out of me every
day for two weeks and licensed mental health professional told him how are you feeling with
simple he was broken the whole thing was focused on you know my eternal soul was a danger
here so at this point I would do anything they ask me to do or believe anything ask me that I
believe so that I can these next 100% I wanted to be fixed a 100% at home he told his parents
worked but he didn't and he felt like a failure when he was 16 he tried to take his own life while
at a friend's House I took a bunch of goals in the Woods behind the House with a note in my
pocket I know I said God forgive me Peter on suicide attempt after conversion therapy is all too
common are ready LGBT youth are more likely to attempt suicide than their peers men nearly
triples among those who've been through some type of counseling to change their sexual
orientation that's why Georgia state representative mack Wilson is trying to pass legislation to
be and it has more than a dozen other States if passed the law would stop licensed mental
health professional from trying to change the sexual orientation or gender identity of minors I
specifically asked just for a hearing this year no vote so that we can use this year as a an
educational moment to really raise awareness about the need for us he says it's about saving
vulnerable children there's then and now cries not just from the victims and lgbtq community
but from the medical professionals who say this is not medicine and not only is not medicine
but the harm is very real and last one of many medical Association say the practice does not
work and is harmful to national organizations like the American Foundation for suicide
Prevention and the advocacy group the Trevor Project are trying to get this legislation passed in
all 50 States.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Apr 26 • 9:00 PM

B_Apr_Wash_90

Tonight, accident or suicide. a police re-enactment pens the department against the pierce
county medical examiner. >> pierce county is just pl making it up. >> in the death of a south
sound teenager. >> the newpoce report that once agai h the me under fire. >> they say the
medical examiner wng when he ruled the death of a 16-year-old by a cie. good evening. >> kiro
7 obtained a supplement police report filed a year and a half after that teenager's death it
shows investigators and the me. clashing over the use of death. we have been reporti on the
series of complaints levelled at the medical examiner. >> we first told you about the death of
157

Jordan several weeks ago. police and hifaily say his death was an aen t. . the family lawsuit. >>
this video shot by police investigators is rereentment showing how Jordan died. > the 16-yearold fell from a bridge during the early morning hours of July 6, 2017. pierce county medical
examiner ruled the suicide, but his father claims that is not true. >> but a it wasn't suicide. >> it
was an accident? >> yes, 100% an accident. >> police also dispute the finding. >> this is a case
where we ffered with the medical examiner. we believed itas an accidental death. >> police and
his father claim he was out late goofing around with a friend when he accidentally fell to his
death. the family filed a lawsuit to have the death certificate changed. on April 2nd of this year
police and clark returned to the brids to re-examine the scene. according to a supplemental
report files by police and obtained by kiro 7 clark tued to insist that he killed himself. >> no, I n
could probably identify those kids of scratches on my arm from working in the yard. its abs >>
they were captured on surveillance video running around vacant parking lots near the bridge
moments before he died. the friend claims hn across the northbound bridge toward the railing
after as if the two spans were connected possibly in an attempt to jump from fwroij bridge or to
the ground below not realizing how far down it was. vio to demonstrate he couldn't po pduced
this cellphone see the distance between the two bridges or the distae to the ground as he ran
toward the railing to jump. hi death is not the only time police and Clark have ffered over cause
of death findings. murder chaes aghips man tyler teal were dropped after Clark ruled the cause
of Steven’s death was the result of a heart condition even though teal was accused of brutally
bea him during an argument. >> our investigators submitted charges for murder too. >> why
rder >> I -- I believe e facts of t case support that. >> the family said they don't believe his ruling
that he killed himself by wging his body into a narrow well in Tacoma with a cellphone case on
his head. >> the fact he had his cellphone on top his head, did he balance that on his head as he
wgled himself down a pipe? n >> in an interview with kiro 7, Michael said Clark’s insistence that
his son deliberately took his own life is devastating. >> to the death certificate and have to look
at that t wasn't suicide.it shouldn't be there. >> in addition to the lawsuit filed by family, Clark
faces two separate investigations. one by the Washington medical commission where three
complaints were filed and another by pierce county's human resources department after one of
the employees filed a whistle blower complaint. back to you.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 26 • 9:30 PM

B_Apr_Wash_91

Family members who lost loved ones due to somebody else's negligence have changed state
law, those parents were told they couldn't sue for wrongful death because their children were
adults.>> the loophole added insult to the tragedy. drew Mikkelsen shows us, they changed the
law. >> I was told, basically that his life had no value. >> spencer died from suicide after being
discharged from a mental hospital.>> it was almost impossible to believe. >> an impaired tour
bus driver killed Katie. >> they were crushed by a piece of concrete. in each case, despite
someone else's negligence, the victims were either unmarried adult, or since they didn't leave
any dependents behind, nobody could sue for their wrongful death.>> the last words that I got
to say to my daughter will never go away, ever. >> she only learned about the law after her
daughter, Christina died from what was believed to be medical malpractice. >> then, they tell
me, after she is dead, your child has no value in the state of Washington, that was wrong.>> it
158

would have been impossible for their families to seek justice. >> those families, and several
others fought for nearly a decade to change the law. in 2015, they highlighted another loophole
that has now been eliminated, the family of five students have been killed and they were not
able to be a part of any lawsuit because those students were not u.s. citizens.>> I’m proud of
the unfortunate legacy that our children have made. to the state of Washington. >> each parent
hoping future lawsuits will make the state safer, as well as giving future grieving parents a
chance to hold someone accountable. >> somebody else's mother hopefully won't have to live
that, won't have to go through being told that their child has no value. that her life didn't mean
anything. because it meant everything to me.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 27 • 9:51 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_201

CBS news correspondent David beg knows investigating the suicide of a 16 year-old you talk to
teen on 48 hours this weekend David joins us from new York David this teenager killed herself
back in may 2017 but she may have had help also ended up happening was it seemed like a
pretty clear cut case of suicide until young man came walking up the street and told one of the
police officials at the scene I think you might want to talk to me because my know something
and that led them to eventually charged the young man with murder and the question becomes
was it murder could they proved enough to show that the young girl would be alive had it not
been for him and tell me about this young woman yes so her name is gender brown she was 16
years old she looks to be just like any 16 year-old girl she grew up in Idaho her mom to move 3
Utah and base started a new life there and at the time she completed suicide she only been
living in Utah for less than a year had a brand-new school brand new friends what she brought
with her from Idaho where some trouble she had some depression I think one thing I’m proud
of this this hour you're going to see on 48 is the interview we did with a psychiatrist because we
wanted this hour to be more than just tragedy there is mystery here and there's will be a
moment in the show where you are going to want to yell at the guy you see on television but
beyond that is a psychiatrist who really offers some valuable information parents can walk
away with it in terms of recognizing that which maybe depression and your child part of this
mystery is that police also found some important evidence on her phone what does that so the
video on her phone was a video of her completing suicide and you won't see it we never
thought of showing it but it was a crucial part of this case it absolutely is everything the case is
based on the app I have not seen the video for myself I didn't feel like I need to see it in order
to tell old this hour special I don't know that any of my colleagues so I it's 10 minutes of a young
girl taking her own life but it's 10 minutes at the police officers needed and head in their
possession that led them to say this young man we're going to charge you and we're going to
charge you with first degree murder CBS news correspondent David big know on this emotional
tragedy of the troubled young woman her death and the charges stemming from that was 48
hours investigation of death and pacing 10 million you can catch 48 hours Saturday night on
CBS television network.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 27 • 9:55 AM

B_Apr_Wash_92

159

The former WSU cooker who signed with the Green Bay Packers to be born from the
Washington Post reports that he took a year off from the sport after his teammate at WSU tyler
collins he succumbed to suicide as he put it my life with time role my she tells me this comes as
more athletes one be more open about their mental health steve Smith senior spoke about it
paul of Fame I believe it was a basketball player second one of our heroes and Michael phelps I
spoke about it we don't want to die and you know whether it's college and you know our and
and substance abuse from the case of Michael phelps or depression in the case of another
athlete at least the state made being removed the hope being that if they can come forward
get some help maybe somebody else will follow their example the National suicide hotline
number.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Apr 27 • 8:22 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_202

Wayne: investigating the death of a Utah teenager. the 16 or alts body was found in peace and
canyon. authorities that they were looking into a suicide. they would soon discover they were
wrong. jenny hansson spoke with David ahead of this special report tonight. >> I will be honest
with you. we thought about whether to do this story in the first place. you don't cover a lot of
suicides. so as not to give someone the thought that may be attempting it or completing it is
something they should do. but this case was not just about suicide. it became about the
mystery involved and the back story.
KBNZ
Apr 27 • 8:45 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_203

ninan: it was a discovery that shocked a tight-knit community in Utah-- the body of a 16-yearold girl found deep in the woods. at first, authorities thought they were investigating a suicide.
but they would soon discover they were wrong.be david begnaud reports for "48-hour hos."ep
>> reporter: it's been two years si e nc cutahy ountershfsif detectives have been up into these
remote foothills, but it's important to show you just how far jchandra brown went on May 5,
2017, to leave her life behind. >> it's about right here where the rope was hanging off of the
tree. there were two grocery bags right over here. >> reporter: inside the bags, detectives
found a note and a cell phone >> that's the note. >> reporter: can you read it/ >> it says, "my
name is jchandra brown, and I hated my life. watch the video. it's on my phone." >> this is a
ten-minute video of0 jchandra dying. >> I was shocked. for the fact that somebody could sit by
and not do anything. >> reporter: also, in the bag, a receipt with a name on it. tyerell
przybycien. >> we knew that we needed to contact tyerell.er >> rr:eporte a well,urs it tned
out,ll tyerend foufi them rst. >> I noticed an individual walking towards our location. and he
tells me, he goes, "ioe think you want to talk to me. I need to tell you the whole story. >>
reporter: detectives questioned tyerell for five hours. >> reporter: they learned he notha only
bought jchandra the rope, he also recorded that video. eo detectives later discovered a te text
that tyerell sent to a friend. >> another detective sends me a text from an acquaintance of
tyerell's-- "it's like getting away with murder. "it >> reporter: are you thinking that he's a
160

suspect in a crime? >> wl,el possibly murder. >> ninan: we'll have more tonight on a brand-new
"48ho hours," starting at 10:00, 9:00 central, right here on CBS.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 27 • 9:41 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_204

Katherine: for the last five months we have been bringing you stories about suicide survival and
hope. >> it's part of our ongoing project kind is better. what we mean by that title you never
know what someone else is going through. even just a little kindness can go a long way. the
high school is on the same page. >> reporter: kicking off a week-long campaign called other
shoes what that means we are really trying to get students to understand what it's like to walk
in somebody's else shoes, so they understand how it is to be kind to one another. >> important
because so many different people and types of people from all different backgrounds at our
school. you never know what their circumstances or where they are coming from the staff held
assembly to encourage kids to ngind. if anyone takes anything away. I hope its kindness and
character are skills that can be taught and can be learned. they hope to start lasting culture not
just around the school but the community as well >> everything that is happening here support
system there to help take what happens today and this week and have that be a lifestyle of
character building and kindness. >> we hope that doesn't just go away. take a lot of work. >>
culture of kindness will help people's mental health. make for better culture may be prevent
somebody from taking their life or struggling with mental health. >> Katherine: that was
deborah reporting. we want to remind you people to talk to at the national life line. phone
number. you can get more information as well suicidepreventionlifeline.org
KBNZ
Apr 28 • 1:26 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_205

Reporter: on Saturday morning, May 6, 2017, hours after she reported her daughter, jchandra,
missing, sue bryan went to work. not long after she got there, her manager wanted to see her.
sgt. fackrell was waiting, too. >> they had me sit down, and he says, "jchandra's gone, and she's
not coming home." and I’m like, "where's she gone to? why? where's she gone to?" and then,
he said, "she's gone. she's passed away we found her in Payson canyon." >> she was
devastated, as any parent would be. obviously, it's like dropping a bomb on the family, and it's
not easy for them to process. >> whai t assaid wou, I shldha edve love her more. I should've
given her more love because now I thought she'd completed suicide. i... I didn't know. that's
what went through my mind. >> reporter: so, suicide was the first thing you thought. >> yeah.
all I could think was, she's at the bottom of a canyon. >> reporter: just across town, tyerell
prezybycien was talking to sheriff's detectives, too. >> reporter: for the next five hours, tyerell
described just how jchandra ended up in payson canyon the night before. >> he described how
he got a text from jchandra that said, "let's do this tonight." >> reporter: investigators would
later discover that tyerell and jchandra had been texting each other for weeks about suicide.
once you get your hands on the text messages, what do they tell you? >> that tyerell had been
planning this from probably the first week that he had met her. he had researched this. he
wanted this to happen, and he carried it out. >> and they left and went to cal ranch, and he
161

bought the rope. >> reporter: store security video and the receipt found at the scene both show
tyerell purchase >> and then, the two of them proceeded to drive towards payson canyon.
reporter: tyerell says that's when he picked up her phone. >> reporter: did he in any way try to
paint this as a suicide pact? >> he did. >> reporter: but sgt. fackrell says tyerell also told him
several times that he had no intention of completing suicide that night. > reporter: are you then
thinking that he's a suspect in a crime? >> yeah. >> reporter: what's the crime? >> well, possibly
murder. >> reporter: possibly. but that wasn't their decision. >> so, I told the officer. I said,
"keep digging. keep learning about what happened and the circumstances. but it's her act, we
might not have anything." >> reporter: deputy utah county attorneys chad grunander and ryan
mcbride were assigned to evaluate the case for possible prosecution. >> ryan was the initial
contact with the county sheriff's office. I was a supervisor at that time. >> reporter: from the
start, they faced a unique challenge: in 2017, utah had no law against assisted suicide. >> we
were one of only a handful of states in the country that did not have an assisted suicide crime.
and so, this was either going to be murder, or potentially manslaughter, or nothing at all. >>
and that's when another detective sends me a text message recovered from an acquaintance of
tyerell's. "what would you do if you had a friend that wanted to kill thselves?" this friend said, "i
would talk them out of it, of course." and he responds back: "i would help them do it. it's like
getting away with murder." >> when we got that message, it was very clear in our minds that
he was acting intentional. he was wanting to help cause her death. we felt like we had enough.
that was the break for us. >> a bizarre case out of payson. a 16-year-old girl is dead, and
another teen is accused of helping her hang herself. >> charges now have been filed against the
boy in this case. >> reporter: just five days after introducing himself to sgt. chappell in payson
canyon, tyerell przybycien was charged with first-degree murder. >> he told us later, part of his
reasoning infor go tg backo the scene was to want to make sure that she was dead. and then,
he had plans to collect the noose, the rope, and save it and keep it. >> reporter: like some kind
of souvenir? >> like a souvenir or a trophy. >> reporter: and there was something else tyerell
wanted the detectives to know. >> he described that jchandra mother, and he left it in the
mailbox outside the home. >> I haven't read the note since the first time that it was read to me.
>> it was your typical, emotionally-charged letter basically saying she's sorry. >> reporter:
jchandra also wrote something else in that letter: "this was all my decision." >> the question
was, was this her decision, or was this his plan?
KBNZ
Apr 28 • 1:41 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_206

Reporter: when you found out what he had, what was your first reaction >> they have the
wrong person. there is no way tyerell would do anything like this. >> reporter: brijottney hnson
says she never imagined she'd find her son in jailti, awaing trial for murder. >> i... I truly felt like
I was living a nightmare that I would wake up from. I just couldn't process tyerell participating
in anything like this. >> reporter: have you ever been able to ask him why? >> no. >> in his
mind, I don't think that he was committing murder. he was helping her do what she wanted to
do. >> reporter: neil skousen and greg stewart were hired to defend tyerell at his upcoming
trial. how does this case compare to anything you've dealt with prior? >> nothing compares. >>
reporter: so, how do you defend a case where your client seems to have already confessed? >>
162

we had the words of jchandra. in her suicide note, she told her mom this was all her decision.
>> we could not escape the fact that jchandra participated in her own death, that she wanted
to die. that was a real factor that we had to consider in prosecuting this case. >> there's just no
doubt that she was determined. that doesn't mean we couldn't just have another outcome. >>
reporter: child and adolescent psychiatrist dr. harold koplewicz: >> the leading cause of death
worldwide for 15- to 19-year-old girls is suicide. it's... it's unacceptable. >> reporter: did she
ever mention about talking with tyerell about suicide? >> no. those were things that she'd keep
to herself, mostly. >> reporter: even though you guys were some of her closest friends. >> yes.
she... everybody has their secrets. >> she didn't let anyone know. >> when you read the texts,
you start to think that this has become part of the game they play, except it's a very dangerous
game. >> reporter: in one of them, tyerell asks jchandra: "you want the quick and painless, no
chance of escaping or returning to this life?" jchandra responded: "i just want to die. I’ve been
trying too long." "i just want to make sure I end it." do you think tyerell was a negative
influence on jchandra? >> yes. >> most definitely. she'd get more and more depressed the
longer she hung out with him. that was obvious. at least, to me, it was. >> he was feeding her.
she had these thoughts; she had this plan and he’s encouraging it. he was scratching the itch,
and it went further and further and further. >> without his support and his help for doing that,
she wouldn't have been able to do it. >> she'd still be here. >> I think it's true he didn't push her
off the cliff, but he kept his arm around her and encouraged her to keep moving forward. >>
reporter: but would the prosecutors be able to convince a jury of that? >> the prosecution has
the burden to show the necessary intent to commit a crime, and the best way to show that is
through the defendant's own words. >> reporter: and Tyrrell gave them a lot to work with: all
of those text messages between him and jchandra. >> you have Tyrrell talking about how he's
going to help jchandra die, different ways of taking her life, recording her do it. >> reporter: this
is a text that Tyrrell sends to jchandra: "can I mutilate your body and cut your head off and
dispose of your body?">> yes. very disturbing. >> all these messages just add up to this
depravity, not caring about human life. and our argument is an intent to kill and a desire to
participate in causing someone else's death. >> reporter: what was the most damning piece of
evidence? >> I think some of... of the text messages that came out when he was talking about
getting away with murder. as the father of a 15-year-old daughter, and as a defense attorney,
that was one thing that... that I guess troubled me. I wish those types of statements hadn't
been out there. it would've made defending the case, I think, a lot... a lot easier. >> if we could
keep our client's mouth shut, that's really a big part of this. >> reporter: but Tyrrell still had a lot
to say, reaching out to family and friends with letters and phone calls from jail. >> he bragged
about his conduct, his accomplishment, if you will. he talked about, "when I get out, I want to
get a noose tattooed all over my arm." >> he asked a friend of his to set up an instagram page
and use the media to enhance his notoriety and somehow profit off of this. >> reporter: Tyrrell
also wrote that he wanted to out in tch icwith mcahelle rter. she caught the nation's attention
during her precedent- setting trial for encouraging her friend, conrad roy, to kill himself. Tyrrell
wrote, "we'd get along great." did you ever pay him a visit to jail and say to him, "you have to
stop writing"? >> every time we saw him. >> reporter: just weeks before his trial was set to
begin, Tyrrell reached out to his friends again. "i will encourage you to use your right to remain
silent, as anything you say is held against me in court." >> he writes a letter telling them that
they don't have to testify against him, they shouldn't testify against him. >> reporter: "it would
163

help my case if you'd inform everyone errogation to use their right to remain silent." >> he was
telling them, essentially, to not cooperate with the police. you can't do that. that's witness
tngamperi. >> reporter: in fact, that letter changed everything. >> did we know that he would
send out letters that would hurt us down the road? no. did it hurt us? Yes
KBNZ
Apr 28 • 1:51 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_207

>> reporter: in the fall of 2018, the utah county prosecutors and tyerell's defense team were
getting ready for trial. >> tyerell had been adamant about going to trial. >> reporter: what was
his thought process? >> that he hadn't committed murder. >> i'd planned my closing argument.
chad had planned a lot of his opening statement. we had our trial strategy. >> reporter: and
then, he changed his mind. >> well, I think one thing that changed his mind was an additional
case that we filed against him for witness tampering. >> reporter: after prosecutors found out
that tyerell asked his friends not to testify against him, they charged him with witness
tampering in addition to murder. and that's when tyerell asked >> we sat down and talked, and
they asked us if we were open to a plea deal. we said, "certainly, if we think it satisfies the
interest of justice." >> reporter: this was the deal: tyerell would plead guilty to a lesser firstdegree felony, child abuse homicide. >> murder was 15 years to life. we compromised and
offered child abuse homicide, which was five to life. >> reporter: why the about-face? why the
change? >> I think it was thinking more clearly about the situation and realizing the
predicament he was in. >> mr. przybycien, as to the amended charge of count one, child abuse
homicide, what is your plea? >> guilty. >> reporter: what did you think when ty pleaded guilty?
>> I wasn't surprised. >> I’m glad. I’m glad that he 'fessed up. I’m glad that he didn't try and
keep denying it. >> it was child abuse. he did take a child. and, in my eyes, child abuse homicide
is as bad or worse than just murder. >> reporter: six weeks later, tyerell was back in court for
sentencing. >> obviously, tyerell has made some... some poor decisions in his life. may 6 was a
day I’m sure he wishes he could... could undo. >> she was the brightness to anybody's day. >>
reporter: as statements were read, it was clear how many lives had been damaged by this one
event. >> tyerell always cared for others more than himself. I am truly sorry for the loss of... of
jchandra. I wish we could all go back to that day and have a do-over, but I know that we can't.
>> two families now have been torn apart. I feel really bad for the przybycien family. I really do.
they lost a son. and I’ve always felt bad for the browns. they lost their daughter. >> there's a
hole in our l ives and our hearts that she used to fill, and we suffer greatly without her. >> I
believe there will never be true justice for jchandra because jchandra will never get to come
home to me. >> if you listen to this story, what makes you cringe is the fact that there's so
many missed opportunities to help her, so many missed opportunities to change the outcome.
>> it is clear, very clear that jchandra's death was avoidable. >> reporter: before the judge
handed down his sentence, tyerell was also given a chance to speak. >> I would like to directly
apologize to the victim's mother, sue bryan, for my irresponsible and irrational behavior. what I
did, I’m not proud, and it doesn't deserve pity. >> mr. przybycien, you' were charged with child
abuse homicide, which you plead guilty to. I’m required by law to sentence you to an
indeterminate term in the utah state prison of not less than five years but whichy ma fbeor life.
>> reporter: tyerell is now g servins out hicesentene at the Utah state prison in draper. as a
164

result of this case, the state legislature passed a new law which now includes assisted suicide in
its definition of manslaughter. >> assisting somebody, providing the means or the opportunity
to help somebody kill themselves, is now a second-degree felony in the state of Utah. >>
reporter: is this justice for jchandra? >> justice for jchandra would be, he didn't do it. he didn't
record. he stopped and saved her. >> I think it's completely understandable that her parents
and her friends blame him. but in the same way that I don't think we would have this outcome
without ty, I don't think we'd have this outcome without jchandra. >> reporter: so, what's the
takeaway? >> I think the takeaway is that we have to take this more seriously. when kids start
having difficulty at school, when they are changing their behavior, when you start to suspect
that something is wrong, that we take it seriously. >> love your family. love your children. if
they're sad, find out if they need help. ask every day. ask them questions. those are the things I
regret that I didn't do with jchandra. >> reporter: have you identified one thing that works
better, really, than anything else at stopping someone who is right on the brink? >> so, I think
that's a very important question because, remember, if you're a teenager, you feel terrible for
the moment. and if you find someone who says to you, "stop, wait, let's think about this, it's
not that bad, I’m sure I can help you get out of this." >> reporter: but jchandra never got that
help from tyerell. >> this is an unacceptable outcome. suicide is not acceptable. that has to
become the nation's thought about this-- that suicide, particularly in teenagers, is not an
acceptable outcome. you're not supposed to die when you're 16 years of age, and especially be
suicidal >> te reporanr: jchdra brown was returned to her hometown of twin falls, idaho. >> we
miss you, jchandra. >> reporter: she's buried near her great-grandmother. >> bye, my beautiful
angel. bye-bye. >> reporter: do you ever think you could forgive this man? >> my faith says that
I should forgive him. my heart says... how could you ju and epst acct or "I’m sry"? 'm sorry that I
made a bad decision and that I took your beautiful, loving, kind daughter away from you." how?
how can someone forgive someone for what he did?
KNDO (NBC)
B_Apr_Wash_93
Apr 28 • 10:10 AM
Oscar Ventura is an 18-year-old senior at desert oasis high school in Othello. he is the student
body president.... a freshman at Columbia basin college... and has a part time job. if you didn’t
know any better... you would think Oscar is a successful teen... but that was not the case a year
ago. I had a lot of anger. I went through a suicidal face where I was on suicide watch and I had
to get counseling. I wasn’t thinking right mental stress and anger drove Oscar to start drinking
alcohol and smoke marihuana and consuming other drugs. so, the expectations for him were
low... until he stopped and went completely sober. after four years I felt like I didn’t need this. I
felt like I need to stop it. I started cutting down people who I used to drink and smoke with
everything Oscar got suspended from Othello high school for coming in intoxicated... he then
fell behind on credits and was sent to desert oasis... an alternative school. a school known for
having students who can be considered troublesome. but oscar didn’t see it like that. oscar saw
this as his opportunity for a second chance. this is my chance to be in a new environment. come
clean and give it my best effort. and that’s what I did. the first day I was here I was already
sober a year later... Oscar is viewed by his teachers as a mentor for the rest of the students at
the school to help them get out of a dark spots they might be in. students here are so used to
failure that when they see someone start to become successful it really kind of opens their eyes
165

a little bit and they start thinking to themselves if he can do it I think I can do it oscar knows
redemption stories like his are unheard of... but he wants to teach and motivate others on how
to live a life without falling of... but he wants to teach and motivate others on how to live a life
without falling into any addictions.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 28 • 8:00 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_208

good evening, welcome to the 5:00 news. I’m bonnie sulkman. a dispute turned deadly. one
person is dead, and another pan is serious injuries after an attempted murder suicide. let's get
to audrey and she joins us live with the latest. audrey. >> yeah, bonnie the clark county sheriff's
office has this neighborhood blocked off as they vest fate. they've been out here for an hour.
they launched a drone as part of the investigation. sheriffs say these men live across the street
from each other. one man was mowing his lawn and you can still see the lawn mower. the
other man walked over and shot him in the head before turning the gun on himself. the vich is
in the hospital with what officials say are serious but survivable injuries. the shooting happened
12:30 here. the sheriff's office says there's a protection between them. we spoke to a woman
that was the victim's daughter-in-law. she did not want to go on camera. she's shocked by what
happened. sparse she knew the two men had wrist office problems and haven't had had any
recent issues. those that live in the area are also surprised to see this. jo I hope everything will
be fine. I hope somebody who been shot will be all right and good shape. it is -- it just very
strange for us, I guess. actually, the reason I’m -- I’m -- yeah. I just don't know. >> I hope it gets
figured out quickly. >> yeah. >> investigators are now collecting evidence and talking to
neighbors to figure out what exactly happened leading up to the shooting and interviewing the
victim once he's able to talk more. the county crimes unit is leading this investigation and they
ask anyone that saw what happened here to give them a call. we're live in vancouver, audrey,
fox 12.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 28 • 9:36 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_209

I’m sure he is glad you will be there. you have been an advocate for mental health awareness
after your son died by suicide in 2003. kgw has been part of the statewide effort called breaking
the silence dozens of media organizations trying to raise awareness about suicide prevention.
what do you think about that project? >> I have not enough words of praise for it. it mirrors
something we have done at the national association that it is okay to talk because we need to
talk. whether it is gun violence, suicide or all of the things that seem to be spiking in our
civilization this day and time we have to pay attention to mental health and preventing suicide
is the work of angels is far as I’m concerned. I commend the media here in Oregon. I am very
proud of this project they have done. I hope we can model it more nationally. >> do you see
this becoming a nationwide project across the country? >> I do and I think it is something we
can't give up on. we had our big rollout after the sandy hook tragedy and the vice president
asked what broadcasters can do and I said we can run a national campaign and we did and tens
of millions of dollars of expense that we committed to that generated a tremendous response
166

on the internet and got a lot of people help. who knows how many tragedies were prevented
because of that or mass shootings these kinds of things. we don't have a stake in mental health,
and I suppose having gone to Washington knowing little more than what I learned in my psych
111 class at byu, I came back with a legacy and this is the biggest part and the part I am most
proud of. the job isn't done because suicide rates continue to go up. >> I want to talk more
about your personal experience, and you will see we do have the phone number up on the
screen kyte a 24-hour lifeline if you or someone you know you can call that number any time.
let's talk about your personal experience and understandably it was devastating for you and at
one point you did think about resigning. what kept you going? >> just a lot of encouragement of
loved ones, friends, family and certainly my staff. they were very helpful, compassionate and
gave me space for grieving. ultimately, I found that I could recuperate as a survivor of the
suicide of my son by doing something about it rather than just going home and feeling sorry for
myself. we passed legislation that my colleagues named after my son and that led to a breaking
in terms of federal legislation on insurance parity at the va -- >> you're talking about what
george bush signed? >> yes and that led to more mental health legislation passing which had
not happened in a long time preceding that here I once said that president obama and the
white house counsel on mental health, I said, we were colleagues and we served together and I
said what are the flaws of obamacare? there are flaws in it. I will lay on the tracks with you to
defend the feature that you put in there making mental health an equal physical health
because it is. if you don't have mental health it doesn't matter if you have physical health. >>
you wrote a book after your son steph remembering garrett one families battle with a child's
depression and it it you talk about warning signs and the lack of knowledge and stigma still
surrounding mental illness and our former reporter met with you and did an interview with you
and the wonderful story in 2006. I want to play a clip of that now. >> to say to a child like
garrett a number of times come on garrett get to work snap out of it. that is like saying to
someone you have diabetes make some insulin. >> is there something you want to say to
people who might be watching and families that might be struggling? >> I would tell them in
our day today the post back then so many years ago mental health is now more accessible and
affordable and if you have a friend or family member who is doing or manifesting behaviors
that are warning signs the best way you can be a friend is to talk about it and go get them help.
you're not making a friend by keeping the confidence of someone on the verge of suicide. hope
is available, and it is accessible, and I believe more affordable than ever before. we all have a
stake in it and the worst thing that a person will end up regretting is that they didn't do
something. speak up and don't be silent. >> I have another clip from that interview with you
when you read the last paragraph of the prologue to the book it was very powerful. let's listen.
>> writing this book and becoming a soldier in the battle of suicide on violating the last thing
that garrett asked of me. he wrote in his note put me in the ground and forget about me.
forgive me son but I cannot forget about you. this is our story. >> after 16 1/2 years the does
the pain ever get less severe. >> and never fully goes away and I don't think it ever will because
we love someone the way I love that boy you feel it and you have remorse, but I can say time
does help. when I think of garrett these days choosing to smile, he was a wonderful boy.
handsome, thoughtful and compassionate. somehow mental illness didn't allow him to love
himself or value himself the way others did. it is not rational, it is not reasonable, but it is real to
them that they have this black dog as Churchill called it or melancholy as Lincoln called it over
167

today maybe posttraumatic stress syndrome or something. there are all kinds of names for it
but it is potentially both very lethal disease, but it is entirely preventable >> you have continued
to be a soldier in that battle as you mentioned in that piece. more than 10 years ago you were
honored and shared the first ever new freedom award for your advocacy. every year since you
have presented an award to an individual or individuals for their leadership on mental health
issues. this fall you will present that award to someone I think this is the first time to someone
Oregonians will be familiar with. >> it will be Ron white. he and I were soldiers in this fight and
ron even had a brother that suffered from schizophrenia. run was my partner not just in the
senate for Oregon where we got a lot of stuff done across the aisle but I think we left Oregon
better. he was there for me when I lost my son so I am really pleased he will be getting that
award.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 29 • 2:05 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_210

in the meantime, back in our area, a man is dead, and another man is in the hospital after
deputy say an ongoing dispute between neighbors in Vancouver turned into an attempted
murder and a suicide. our cashier's office as a man walked across the street and shot his
neighbor, who at the time was mowing his lawn. then they said that men killed himself. this
happened around 12:30 this afternoon near 174th avenue and 29th street. neighbors say they
are shocked. >>> this is a quiet neighborhood, generally. people are really nice and friendly.
yeah, this is really unusual. >> were just out for a walk, which is what many people do like on a
day like today. it is sad to see people in conflict like this. >> deputy say there was a protection
order already in place between the two men. we do not know what the issue between them
was at this point. the man who was shot on his front lawn was taken to the hospital with
serious injuries.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 29 • 4:03 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_211

One man is dead and another is recovering from serious injuries after deputies say an ongoing
dispute between neighbors turned into an attempted murder and suicide authorities say a man
walked across the street in northeast one 74th and 29th and shot his neighbor who was
mowing his lawn on Sunday afternoon they say that man killed himself neighbors tell kgw third
disbelief we all have this is a rough quiet neighborhood generali and enough people really nice
summer of a family so yeah this Israeli 10 and not unusual clark county deputies say there is
already a protection order in place between the two men investigators have not said what the
dispute was.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 29 • 7:33 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_212

one man dead, another in the hospital. the clark county sheriff's office says a man walked
across the street and shot his neighbor mowing his lawn and then killed himself. this happened
168

in the middle of the day yesterday afternoon near 174th and 29th street. neighbors are
shocked. >> well, yeah, this is a quiet neighborhood generally and people are really nice and
really friendly, so, yes, this is really unusual. >> we were out for a walk which a lot of people do
on a day like today, so it is really sad to see people in conflict. >>> the man shot taken to the
hospital with serious injuries.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 29 • 8:00 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_213

a man is dead, and another man is seriously hurt-- in what clark county deputies are calling-- an
attempted murder-suicide. they say a Vancouver man was mowing his lawn yesterday
afternoon when a neighbor shot him in the head and left him with serious injuries. they say the
shooter then turned the gun on himself -- killing himself. we spoke with a neighbor who
happened to drive by before emergency crews arrived on scene. he says the victim was actually
walking around looking for help. ((21:51:29:00 "i saw a lot of blood, but he was still awake. he
ran from I think he went next door to his neighbor banged on his garage. I think he might have
made his way across the street banging on her door.")) that neighbor worked with another
good samaritan to stop the bleeding. deputies have not yet identified the victim or the shooter.
they say the shooting may be connected with a longstanding neighborhood dispute. deputies
haven't released any details on that disagreement however according to court records, there's
a "served protection order" between the two men that was filed in January of last year -- and
the victim is the protected person. otherwise deputies say they haven't had any previous
problems between these neighbors.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Apr 29 • 9:32 AM

B_Apr_Wash_94

Reporter: yeah. you're right. good morning. and we're going to hear late this evening one of the
big hearings at the house veteran s s affairs committee. they're tackling the issue of suicide
prevention. they have seen a spate of suicides by military veterans at va facilities. 24 in the past
18 months. this past month, three in six days. there are many louder calls now for some type of
action. there are proposed pieces of legislation to force the va campuses to report them much
faster to congress with suggestions on what to do to somehow get better outreach to veterans
who may be struggling. >> and didn't the white house address some of the needs for the
improvements and better care? . >> reporter: yeah. we absolute have, kelly. and what we saw
earlier this year was president trump creating a new task force that was supposed to address
the issues be a mandate by next spring there be something in place with largest improvements
and plans for improvements. and I spoke with the secretary of the department about this and
he said it takes a long time to right the ship. sometimes the va was held to lower standards and
that had become common place. as a result, they need to tackle it. they know that this is at air
rate one and a half times higher regarding suicide than people who have not served in the
military and it can't continue.
KATU-POR (ABC)

B_Apr_Oreg_214

169

Apr 29 • 9:37 AM
a live look at the nation’s capital where after a couple of weeks off lawmakers are back at work.
sinclair chief political correspondent scott thuman joins us live from d.c. scott we understand
one of the biggest hearings today will be about veterans. >> you're right. congress coming back
into session after that two-week spate and so now you're seeing them getting back to work.
they're talking about preventing suicide among veterans. 24 suicides on v.a. campuses at v.a.
facilities over the past 18 months. they had three in six days earlier this month. so now you're
hearing louder calls by members of congress about what they can do. they've proposed
legislation that demands reporting happens more quickly. they can this is one of those issues
they can get bipartisanship. >> scott didn't the white house already address the need for
improvements in better care? >> they did. the passenger's seat demanded an increase of a new
task force and that happened earlier in year with a goal of by next spring having a plan in place.
but clearly, it's just not that easy to do. and in fact, I talked with secretary wilke and he said it
would not be acceptable in the private sector. so that's one of the things we'll hear about
tonight and tomorrow.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 29 • 10:30 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_215

one person is dead another in the hospital after two neighbors got into with the clark county
sheriff's office says a man walked across the street in northeast won 74 than 29th and opened
fire on his neighbor who at the time was mowing his lawn then they say that man turned the
gun on himself neighbor tell kgw they're shocked by the attempted murder and suicide Sunday
after June we is out for a walk which a lot of people do around here on a day like today and
again it's very sad to see people in conflict like this sheriff's office says there was already a
protection order in place between the two men guy who was shot on his front lawn suffered
serious injuries and is in the hospital.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 29 • 3:31 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_216

One is dead, and another is hurt after a murder suicide. it happened yesterday afternoon. we
are waiting to find out the name of those involved. >>> a Vancouver man was mowing his lawn
when he was shot in the head by a neighbor. than he turned the gun on himself. a neighbor
said the victim was walking around looking for help. >> he waived me down saying he's been
shot and call 911. I was asking where the shooter is. I was shocked to see what I saw. never saw
that in real life. >> the neighbor worked with another good Samaritan to stop the bleeding. they
have not identified the victims or shooter. they say this might be connected to a long-standing
neighborhood dispute. they have not released details on the disagreement. court records show
there is a severed protection order between the two men filed in January last year.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 30 • 8:03 AM

B_Apr_Wash_95

170

a surge out what was happening just turn my new study points to arise in suicides among young
people after netflix 13 reasons why cbs's alisa keys has the details and the series a teenaged girl
killed herself after leaving 13 tanks telling why she made that decision a government study
finds that the suicide rate among those between the ages of 10 and 17 rose nearly 29% when
the show debuted april 2017 and age I age study says suicide rates for that age range were
higher for the rest of the year but researchers say they cannot directly link the tv show but the
increase in suicide rates.
KMTR (NBC)
Apr 30 • 9:10 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_217

when a young suicidal patient arrives at the hospital they are placed in a completely bare room.
but cna is hoping to change that. an act of kindness hoping to make the isolation complete. >>
obviously, they have had a tough life that got them there in the first place. >> while the room
might look full right now, when a suicidal patient comes, and it is completely stripped. >> we
have to keep them safe and keeping them safe is making sure the cords, wires, no sharp objects
or pointy pencils. >> to make it feel less like a prison cell, it can make a big difference. >> they
just try to end their lives and they don't want to be there. they don't want to live. if we can get
their mindset changed -- >> she got permission to brighten the room up with a colorful
pillowcase and a teddy bear. >> we get that pillowcase on the bed and I take extra special time
to make sure I got just the right teddy bear. >> for a patient in isolation of a small gesture can
go a long way. >> some of the patients will take plastic pieces off the wall to harm themselves
and break things and hide things. she was instrumental in allowing us to do the small touches.
how do we make them feel comfortable and spend time with them so they feel cared for and
not like they are being punished. >> I think we saw a little more anger in them before. they
would be more anxious to leave. at first sometimes they will cost the stuff animals side and
before you know it you will see it tucked under their arms. >> on behalf of kmtr and writes
home furnishing we would like to thank you for being a wonderful community member, your
passion and care for the patients and would like to present you with this to thank you so much
for being a wonderful community member. >> isn't that amazing. >> where do you cash a check
that bid? >> they get to keep it I think they put it on the wall in the pediatrics department. but
isn't that so interesting and I put that towards purchasing more pillowcases and bears. >> when
it comes to the acts of kindness, how do you find people that are doing good? >> I reached out
to a contact myself, but anybody can nominate someone. >> so, somebody watching now
knows somebody doing good above and beyond they get in touch with you. >> send us an
email, you can nominate them by sending an email with their name and why you think they
should be recognized. acts of kindness that kmtr.com

B_Apr_Oreg_218

News Radio KEX
Apr 30 • 11:24 AM
171

Netflix had a show called 13 reasons why was released two years ago depicting the life of a
teenage girl but decided to kill herself come and she sound no sir whatever tall these people
that the premise of the show is a high school girl commit suicide leaves behind tapes to friends
and enemies alike that kind of explain the is specifically related to people who created the
context of her life which led her to yeah this is one killing myself there's one other reasons as
you view one time he appoint people like um so long that that that theme is troubling right I
mean it's said can get into those schools to the manifesto thing hears you made me so mad I
did this year to blame and if you got that you can see how he got that word out to a troubled
kid that might sound appealing anyway there were warnings at the time from educators
psychologists that the program could lead to copycat suicides now the n.i.h. is how the report
says that means certainly may have been warned in the month following the show's debut
there was a 29% increase in suicides among Americans aged 10 to 17 great Scott said the study
published in the journal of the American academy of child and adolescent psychiatry the
number of suicides is greater than seen in any single month over a five-year period the
researchers examined holy can mean that's saying made a heck of a coincidence that one of the
reasons that's horrific over the rest of the year there were 195 more you size a suicide than
expected giving historical trends almost 200 more than they would expect wow I know you
don't the study found the boys perform more likely than girls to kill himself after the show
debuted suicide rate for emails increase but not statistically cup of bok did home but yeah I
remember when it came out the criticism was this show makes suicide seemed like a
reasonable conclusion to the chain of logic and events and relationships that it hides them
together in a way that makes sense all okay yeah so you kill yourself in and listen there are
causes city and usually the most important causes depression and mental illness not specific
transactions was pacific people and maybe that triggers that but yeah I just I was intensely
uncomfortable with the show what I read about it when he came out so Ashley because it's
watched heavily by kids adolescents no warning at the time from the national association of
school psychologist was we do not recommend the vulnerable youth especially those who have
any degree of suicidal ideation watch the series its powerful storytelling may lead
impressionable viewers to romanticize the choices right made by the characters and or develop
revenge fantasies um but ran those statistics with would lead to believe that it would give back
in the bet yeah and so what you do with that information who pollute anybody society a viewer
I wasn't gory have as a society the three-way to stop shows that we will but that on
professional believe are is going to lead to more suicides and then does you know I think there
of social pressure I mean it's you know our society so dumb at this point he's see something say
something mildly insensitive on twitter there will be thousands of people trying to get you fired
from your job if you're unleashing entertainment makes children kill themselves you can't really
stir people care ullman I yeah I think Netflix a poll show immediately never heard again right
now it's in his third season.

News Radio KEX
Apr 30 • 11:35 AM

B_Apr_Oreg_219

172

so, we're just talking about how you and I each government agency believes the this Netflix
show home led more young people to commit suicide by the hundreds you think Netflix should
be on the hook for that little bit well yeah thing and take the show off their its dangers it's wellintentioned because of the messages shows behind the two peace corps go look you know I
told him be cool in gossipy a great theme rest of it because it really hurts people at all ok that's
a lovely message but it's just so focused on suicide and portrays suicide the rest of it which
experts say is really dangerous with impressionable youths you don't do that it's incredibly
irresponsible and listen you thought it would help I have a feeling all good people who put the
show again but now it would seem undeniable it's it's just it's dangerous it should not be
watched by young people lad lessons yank it okay how much money you're making I don't care
how popular is stop airing it yeah some shown encouraging rape and it turns out people raping
while hundreds more than it could be but he got some show about in autos meaning jews
whose all of a sudden you got a lot of anti-semitic attacks you got to take that thing off the air
on Netflix.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Apr 30 • 2:39 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_220

you have an issue with mental health there's an ongoing class-action federal lawsuit without a
Miss Department of corrections that's about mental health there are additional portion of the
case about bond medical care and dental care that have yet to that kind of they be taken to
trial but this fortune with mental health caring 2017 federal judge in the case ruled that no
healthcare and state prisons that was her into sleet an adequate specifically citing issues of no
prisoners receiving face the any care or having any mental health treatment no screening of
inmates for suicide risk and since that finding 2017 there's been a spike in inmate suicides
we've had 15 suicides in the 15 months in state prisons which is really the standout national
These guys the rate of suicide among inmates not prompted a recent trial about suicide
Prevention in state prisons that is a carryover of this this ongoing lawsuit a federal judge on the
case is actually expected to give you a decision about suicide Prevention state prisons this this
week.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Apr 30 • 2:47 PM

B_Apr_Wash_96

in addition to the Department of Justice report you have an issue with mental health there's an
ongoing class-action federal lawsuit without a Miss Department of corrections that's about
mental health there are additional portion of the case about bond medical care and dental care
that have yet to that kind of they be taken to trial but this fortune with mental health caring
2017 federal judge in the case ruled that no healthcare and state prisons that was her into sleet
an adequate specifically citing issues of no prisoners receiving face the any care or having any
any mental health treatment no screening of inmates for suicide risk and since that finding
2017 there's been a spike in inmate suicides we've had 15 suicides in the 15 months in state
prisons which is really the standout national These guys the rate of suicide among inmates not
173

prompted a recent trial about suicide Prevention in state prisons that is a carryover of this this
ongoing lawsuit a federal judge on the case is actually expected to give you a decision about
suicide Prevention state prisons this this week many said but you mentioned also the
Correctional officers as 90 Nov 8 others already been orders about that right to increase the
number and exactly 10 stemming from its lawsuit with them out and that a Department of
Corrections bed the Department has been ordered by a federal judge to higher over 2000
additional correction officers by 2022 room okay so increasing staffing levels talk about the
House staff is an issue I don't read in part the report how because they are short-staffed but
also frightened some these officers are caging themselves off and not even interacted with the
prisoners right because that the ratio is them is stark there is sometimes just one correction
officer to oversee and as these 200 inmates in a dormitory style living facility in been so near 80
years CEO of medtronic corrections has about a third of the correction officers that means and
some of the prisons operate with less than 20% of their authorized staff and said this is tied into
the issue with with minimal help because there's not enough staff and that current
commissioner of the Department of Corrections jeff dine says he's really seen this as a
challenge for him mental health professionals in general across the state and across the country
are hard to come by and asking folks to come and work in the prison environment makes it
even more difficult so there's challenges there you and you saw this with your own eyes Mary
scott because he visited a prison you can see it right Yeah of course it's not just mental health
professional hitter hard to hire its Correctional officers and the dentist the decline in the
number of correction officer for the past 5 years or so you can see it is just ahead of the line
that goes down of a number of folks who are working in state prisons and because they get
paid low low wages and if I only have 4 inmates in a silent prayers staff as well bill also these
things like where housing the prisoners and one of the management issues brought up a lot is
this use of the called segregation cells of prisoners placed in isolation these exist in other
prisons but could describe what's happening in Alabama right Yes that's been a big source of
attention because in another often used for punishment of to protect inmates who are at risk
of harm and also used sometimes when prisoners may be at risk of suicide they'll be placed in
segregation units are in isolation and then they're not in know whether they're on there for us
in segregation for us watching not and they're not monetary adequately not there's not enough
staff to go in and monitor them I spoke to a former prison warden about this I mean David why
is he spent 28 years with the Department of Corrections Alabama and he says you know this is a
huge problem for some sugar patient units.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Apr 30 • 4:27 PM

B_Apr_Wash_97

a new study says there was a spike in teenage suicides the month after Netflix released a series
about a teenager who commits suicide ABC Scott Goldberg ports there were concerns two
years ago when Netflix released this series 13 reasons why that would glamorize suicide it's
about a teenager who killed herself and if you're listening to this tape you're one of the reasons
why now study says among back after this series came out teen's suicide rates jumped nearly
30% in the U.S. research funded by the National Institutes of health doesn't establish a cause

174

effect relationship with the series does find a correlation Netflix says it's looking into the study
and says this is a critically important topic.
KFXO (FOX)
Apr 30 • 7:25 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_221

Startling new data shows an association between the teen suicide rate and t release of a
popular Netflix show. "13 reasons why" premiered in mar 20-17 and is about a young woman
who killed herself. researchers studied c-d-c data involving the deaths of people between the
ages of 10 and 64 between January 20-13 and December 20-1 the suicide rate among those
ages 10 through 17 increased nearly 30-percent April 20-17... especially among boys. there
were also nearly 2 hundred additional deaths from suicide between the show's release through
the study' conclusion. however,... expert say there is n evidence the series directly caused the
increase... only there was an association you can find several central Oregon resources for
those struggling with thoughts of suicide or other mental health issues on our website just click
'let'salk' under the community tab at ktvz.com
KGW-POR (NBC)
Apr 30 • 7:34 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_222

Startling new data shows an association between the teen suicide rate and the release of a
popular Netflix show. 2017's 13 reasons why focuses on a young woman who killed herself.
research has studied cdc data and found the suicide rate among people 13 through 17
increased nearly 30% in the months following the release, especially among boys. however,
experts say there is no evidence the series directly caused the increase, only that there was an
association. the researchers say the findings should serve as a reminder that teens may be
sensitive to the way suicide is portrayed in the media. also, important to know, if you, or
anyone you know needs help, you can reach the national suicide prevention hot line at 1-800273-talk.
FM News 101 KXL
Apr 30 • 8:01 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_223

teen suicide is on the rise now one study suggests some cases may have been caused by a
popular tv series and excels mike turner talks with a psychologist to says it's possible 13 reasons
why was Netflix series followed the team decided to take her own life prominent psychologist
tyson payne says that's when he started seeing more patient I saw a significant increase of
teams anything in children younger than that coming on teens who had an insane Michelle
they're friends to see it and they were talking about the American academy of child and
adolescent psychiatry study found nearly 30% increase in teen suicides the month after the
show's debut dr. tyson believes there's a reason for this showing the character and her life
that's it away glorifies next for those who signed he says positive takeaway is initiating a
conversation about suicide.

175

KOBI
Apr 30 • 8:22 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_224

startling new data shows an association between the teen suicide rate and the release of a
popular Netflix show. "13 reasons why" premiered in March of 2017 and is about a young
woman who killed herself. researchers studied c-d-c data involving the deaths of people
between the ages of 10 and 64 between January 2013 and December 2017. the suicide rate
among those ages 10 through 17 increased nearly 30-percent in April 20-17... especially among
boys. there were also nearly 200 additional deaths from suicide between the show's release
through the study's conclusion. however, experts say there is no evidence that the series
directly caused the increase... only that there was an association. the researchers say the
findings should serve as a reminder that teens may be sensitive to the way suicide is portrayed
in the media. if you're struggling know you can reach the national suicide prevention lifeline at
1-800-273-talk (8255) ... or you can text "home" to the crisis text line at 741-741.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Apr 30 • 8:35 PM

B_Apr_Wash_98

new research shows that the suicide rate for young people the u.s. rose by nearly a third after
the popular Netflix tv drama 13 reasons why I hit the airwaves two years ago CBS news
correspondent Allison key use and the series a teenaged girl killed herself after leaving 13 tanks
telling why she made that decision a government study finds that the suicide rate among those
between the ages of 10 and 17 rose nearly 29% when the show debuted April 2017 and age I
age study says suicide rates for that age range were higher for the rest of the year but
researchers say they cannot directly link the tv show but the increase in suicide rates Netflix
says it is reviewing the study calling it a critically important topic.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 30 • 8:46 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_225

We have more on the study about the series 13 reason why. >>reporter: well, for those sitting
at home and aren't familiar with the show it chronicles a teen's decision to take her own life. a
recent study discovered in a month after the series released teen suicide rates rose b 30%. >>
I’m about to tell you the story of my life. more specifically why my life ended. >>reporter: the
netflix series 13 reasons why brought suicide forward. hannah took her own live. a study
showed there was a 28.9% increase in teen suicide rate the month after the show's debut. the
trend continued the following year. >> the study didn't surprise me. from my own experience I
saw an increase in teens and even children younger than that coming in. >>reporter: province
mental health expect believes it glorified suicide. >> children feel hopeless. they feel depressed.
that's a normal adolescent experience. this show said okay, if you feel like this this is the option.
>> 13 reason why tackled other options. pain suggests some good came out of the debut. there
was dialog about mental health. you should ask your child important questions. >> have you
had thoughts of hurting yourself or ending your own life. >> a conversation that could
straighten relationships and explore how to tackle concerns about school, family dynamic and
176

body issues this is a common trigger. >> the better together initiative focused on ways to
promote mental wellness. if someone you know needs help there are people out ready to
listen. we have links on our website kptv.com. live in the studio, fox 12 Oregon.
FM News 101 KXL
US Apr 30 • 9:01 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_226

the suicide rate among teens has been on the rise and the usual suspects tend to be bullying
and social media but a new study suggests a popular tv show maybe partly to blame I Netflix
series called 13 reasons why all of the team decided to take her own life a new study published
this week in the journal of the American academy of child and adolescent psychiatry down
nearly 30% increase in teen suicides the month that the show's debut problem psychologist
tyson pains as a graphic suicides same was not necessary had no boundaries for me children
begins a glorified suicide because there can be a positive outcome from such series a kid is
there's a conversation around it parents own the children are watching and you're talking about
it's minutes of days when the child watches its and months later they go twitter place and the
child back he says the bears need to have a direct conversation whether dreams about suicide
by turner after news channel 1.5
KATU-POR (ABC)
Apr 30 • 9:05 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_227

a new study found the rate of suicide among young boys in the u.s. spiked after the Netflix
show 13 reasons why premiered. according to the children's hospital in the month immediately
after the show was released in March of 2017, the rate of suicide for boys ages 10 to 17 went
up by nearly 30%. Rape rates for girls during that time remained the same. a local psychologist
says part of the problem is the show started a conversation about suicide but had no
boundaries. that it didn't address the need for parents to have real conversations with their
kids. >> the idea is already there. media, whether it shows 13 reasons why or see on snapchat
or twitter or whatever the social platform is, the idea is already there. having a conversation
about it is one of the best ways to help alleviate that. >> he said in his persons kids who watch
the show with parents and talked about it afterwards did much better than kids who watched it
alone. >> experts say most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. there's always
someone available to talk if you need it. call the national lifeline, 1-800-273-talk. you can text
home to 741741 or klatt online at suicide prevention lifeline.org
KING-SEA (NBC)
Apr 30 • 9:12 PM

B_Apr_Wash_99

there are disturbing new findings in the suicide crisis among teens in America. a spike in
suicides after the release of a popular show in which a teen takes her life. the researchers can't
prove the show was the cause. with more here is joe fryer with our 1 in 5. >> the story of my
life. >> reporter: from the moment "13 reasons why" debuted on Netflix in 2017 mental health
professionals were alarmed worried the show which centers around a girl's suicide would lead
177

to copycats. now new published research says teen suicides spiked in the month after the
show's release. a 28.9% increase among American kids ages 10 to 17. a 19-year high. over the
rest of the year the study estimates there were 195 more suicides than would have been
expected based on trends. >> media portrayal of suicide may have a bigger impact on
vulnerable young people than was expected. >> reporter: but it's unclear if the kids who died by
suicide actually watched "13 reasons why." also researchers say the higher suicide rate was
driven mostly by boys, yet the show's viewership skews heavily female. Netflix is looking into
the research saying this is a critically important topic and we have worked hard to ensure we
handle the sensitive issue responsibly. Netflix also pointed to another recent study which found
helpful effects for young adults who watched the entire second season. new research sparking
new debate with a third season expected later this year. joe fryer, NBC news.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Apr 30 • 9:35 PM

B_Apr_Oreg_228

controversial Netflix show "13 reasons why" made its debut, mental health experts feared it
would lead to a spike. the fears were not unwarranted. marja martinez brings us the advice one
local psychiatrist has for parents. >> reporter: for those not familiar with the show, it chronicles
a teen that decides to take her own life. in the month after the show was released, teen suicide
rates rose by almost 30%. >> settle in. I’m about to tell you the story of my life. more
specifically, why my life ended. >> reporter: the Netflix original series"13 reasons why" brought
the issue of teen suicide nationwide. it's about a girl named hanna who took her life. but
according to the mental health institute, there was an increase in teen suicide rate with the
trend continuing the following year. >> the study didn't surprise me at all. anecdotally from my
own experience, I saw a significant increase of teens and even children younger than that
coming? noo providence mental health expert tyson payne believes 13 reasons why glorified
suicide. >> often times children feel hopeless and gets depressed. that is a normal adolescent
experience. this show said if you're feeling like this, this is the option. >> reporter: "13 reasons
why" tackles other topics like rapes and school shooting portraying those two in graphic detail.
payne recommends parents continue that conversation by asking their child important
questions. >> have you had thoughts of hurting yourself? have you had thoughts of ending your
own life. >> reporter: a conversation he says could strengthen your relationship as together you
explore how to tackle concerns about school, your family dynamic, social media pressures and
body image issues, which according to payne, are common triggers for teens. fox 12 better
together initiative focuses on ways that our community promotes mental wellness. if you or
someone you know needs help, there are people out there ready to listen. we have links to
resources on our website at kptv.com/bettertogether. in the studio, Marja Martinez, fox 12
Oregon.

178

