B_MAR_WASH_1

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 1 • 2:40 PM
welcome back discover judgment watching over mountain village episode when I was in
Washington and my speed left and is responding to emergency calls for 6 months 0 training and
she hasn't lost a single person by that much about to change and didn't lose anyone for 6 holes
that she got another call there's a possible suicide at to residents and commuters jim very
candid needed boost since the trial some poi it was a little older than and son Raymond to his
high school's salute the Tory earlier that day he just put his happened down on his graduation
picture when she got there at the front window was broken and school principal standing
helplessly at fact Cornish and found twice body inside it's not every day that you are a see a
scene like that and it's very hard on her mind it was the first suicide and I hadn't been able to
stop in her 6 months as a mountain village police officer should call the Alaska state troopers
for backup they're required to respond when there's a death in the community then she sighed
heavily on quite bryant front porch and Wade it's always hard when somebody tries to take
your life before their time is over because you know they're robbing himself room to potential
of why they're here the troopers showed up about two hours later they asked me to not let
anybody in our House tape after building keep its here she stood watch outside the dead White
House for another 18 hours until 4 5 in the morning and one point and overheard one of the
troopers directing his team into the House he said the start examining and take pictures and
stuff like that and that's when I hit her and there wasn't a gun at the scene of a suicide which
meant that clip Bryant had killed himself and all using the murdered hold fast over the next few
days school was canceled the local pastor organized a memorial service the school jam which
the whole town attended the Alaska state troopers mobilized a team of officers from at least 6
different state agents seems investigators flew in the mountain village from homer Fairbanks
Soldotna and they wanted and how do skin flows all involved like Google like put away the
troopers said that Coy had been shot at close range in a robbery gone wrong and they thought
the assailant might be someone his age the nuns' religious high school is small it's quite a shop
one of its class mates and I thought there was a good she asked her son Raymond mean who
did that she had when she was 16 and they've always been close Ups I'm 9 know his looks and
no one is hiding so for me and you know just I was like you know he knows something event a
few days into the investigation and received a flurry of attacks from a close friend don't ask me
how I know that's the sad but Raymond knows something about what happened it started to
seemed and like Raymond might know who did this so I called Todd boom trooper morning and
informed him we know I think you might want to talk to my son again the troopers ask Anna to
drive Raymond to one of the school District's buildings where they set up a makeshift
headquarters I was in command thug came to tell me what he knew or you know I really
wanted to fight myself so hard not to do it as his mother I wanted to tell me everything but as a
police officer I couldn't because I am not professionally trained enough to handle situations like
this so I did not want to hinder any evidence I just told agreement to oust told the truth no
1

matter what two days I always love him no matter what that I'm always going to be his mother
and pure luck getting agreement for 16 and in alaska that's old enough to waive the right to be
questioned with apparent present gas and had to wait outside and walk in his interrogation
allowed just thinking about like what the heck's going on in their order they talk about quarter
they saying to him what is he saying that like I was a word about this he could have been but
should go home and get him some fool she kept herself busy by thinking about the sandwich
she wanted to make Cam something with hannah and lettuce that know to me that's and filing
came and said you know you were holding him he's been charged I had like no sense of SMU L
alert I could my head was spinning it felt so unreal like I was blocking I didn't realize I was
walking over it I couldn't cry anymore you know like you hit a wall assist you just hit a wall and
cyber whatever connection care so soon expire choose to talk to him and talk to heather it is
craig opt tun to make sure that his brothers sisters don't get in trouble did you see them take
Raymond away Yeah Rosemary terror was really hard knowing that I had I had to but didn't
take him but at the same time in it I had to do to move they told me he was being charged for
assaults but they didn't tell me anything about charging him for murder they charged Raymond
with first degree murder he is being tried as an adult the troopers save it and his son confessed
to killing play brian in a haphazard robbery they claimed he shot quake twice with one of his
Own guns once in the back he tried to run and wants a point blank range and I didn't leave her
House for days like dicey der why didn't I know are doing maybe I'm just working too much
debt they don't realize what they're doing when I'm not there Raymond was the one who made
sure her other kids ate lunch he chided her daughter Princess about cavity is but she's also
caught him drinking with some kids that adopt he and some other teenagers had broken into a
storage unit by the gas station at one point He was suicidal just like and had then when she was
16 were you worried about him and by Ankara's getting really frustrated with him I knew he
was starting to make choices that he shouldn't be doing Hey you know what durant type
Frandsen being influenced in the wrong way some people not a privilege think draymond did
tests other people don't they think he might have been involved in some way but he's actually
the full guy for someone else this case hasn't gone to trial yet and we really don't know what
happened here agreement where Anna a letter from jail he told her she was the toughest
bravest woman he nailed she also wrote that her work as a police officer terrorist I am I
neglected and questions bone how they actually felt Mo me see me with brooms you work on
crashes and was wondering fight back severely hurt like need your a few months after that and
she texted me late at night and I called her right away your E.P.A. my favorite Li a letter the
letter I turn to larry brian billick it be comfortable she resigned Unrein and 17th birthday like I
mean bernie the big primary I'm really in a really good at it ferryman arrest and was afraid of
what some people in the community might do a the family members of Keepushing arrested
polluted about her misfortunes on Facebook she remembers this one guy in particular Macau's
mother murdered really putting me down old and I was really really mad because he was like
one of the ones that I had to help it forward and I was like how did he not realized that did you
save his life guy did he was it was wintertime viewers behind Hills frozen drawn Q what else
froze to death the site didn't climb back there crawl back Aaron Paul Hall didn't bring them back
to their own that happened twice a by stayed inside my 4 walls I didn't go anywhere and I got a
knock at the door it was a woman from the village who she never really talked to perform was
kind of hesitate and I opened the door and put on the first by a coffee in and we started to us
2

drinking coffee and starts talking and then they started telling me that they really appreciated
everything that I was doing spurred the community.

3

KMTR (NBC)
Mar 1 • 6:35 PM

B_MAR_OREG_1

health officials on the lookout for shorter wait times and drives if you live in some organ
communities that is because children and families in florence now have new resource and just
to turn to for behavioral health care and counseling. it can be found at mapleton middle school
the superintendent of the mapleton school district says that there has been a shortage of
healthcare providers traveling long distance to urban centers can lead families in rural areas to
face a lot of challenges. getting the babe was the behavioral healthcare that they need.>> you
see a lot of anxiety. kids have some depression. some suicidal thoughts. also kids who are part
of broken homes just have a lot of issues with family members and their parents.>> piece
health and the peace harbor foundation gave nearly $400,000 in grant money to renovate the
buildings and space. the building space rather for those centers.>> it is very centrally located for
our community as well as it is the first building that you come to on campus. you can help with
safety and security of people not just wandering through campus to access services it is right at
the beginning of our campus that helps us as well. it was the mapleton center is open tuesdays
and thursdays from 8:30 am to 5 pm. and the center is open mondays, wednesdays, and fridays
from a :30 pm time to 5:30 pm time
B_MAR_WASH_2

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 1 • 2:55 PM

… our people are facing the reality that's going on behind everybody's stores and it's mind
boggling and sinks and her great Couch and we start watching movies we're about halfway
through Transformers and some text and a woman's boyfriend just threatened to kill himself
and I know him pretty well by now and get a call give any plans to harm yourself I'm give any
plans to harm others so what's your safety plan and tonne iron time and can you tell me why
thank you thank you thank you Anna built for sharing your stories now reporter teresa custombuilt brought along with enough that the summer of 2018 I've been chatting with each other
every sense and it is still a police officer in mountain village she's working for trial now getting
better compensation she has some geared EU EU partner on the police force son Raymond is
awaiting trial and also some villages suicide rate seems to be doing better which she attributes
to grass-roots programs community started themselves I also think jim you this brian share your
story with us with the Kathy Moses and no religious tribal Council for all the time and patience
if you or a loved one is struggling with suicidal thoughts help is available 24 hours a day please
call the National suicide Prevention hotline.

4

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 1 • 2:14 PM

B_MAR_WASH_3

… blocking hot button issues about them all any time there's an 11 p.m. curfew here because
on the bad days nothing village gets really violent this is one of the porous parts of the country
some people don't have running water or can't afford heating fuel it's been that way for
decades and that kind of poverty it feeds other problems the the violence in rural Alaska has
reached a boiling point Western Alaska has some of the highest rates of domestic violence and
sexual assault in the nation suicide rates it times higher one in 3 communities in Alaska has no
local police protection of any for me it feels like our houses are jail cells were all stuck within
this radius and it's just like with tanking know you've witnessed we wanted to win but it's feels
so good to be a whole lot of native villages don't have any cops at all not village has and she's
just to go to police officer she's also it's only 9.1 dispatcher and when she gets a call she
dispatches herself because a lot of the time she's her villages only first responders the town
keeps hiring police officers but they generally quit after a few weeks And spent most of the past
6 months working on so what kind of training did you get Anna know that we I didn't even
know that hilla discovery package was to be honest and I had no idea was supposed to do them
thank God for watching a lot of the French trial on E and watching matlock I was a kid take
another village didn't have the money to send and attack any kind of police Academy or it turns
out for anything else I didn't even have me Sir handcuffs at one point another time her truck
broke down for a few weeks and and had to run from called call and because Anna isn't a
trained police officer she's not certified to carry a gun this was not a job she ever thought she
had of I just thought it was the most hilarious thing ever to be asked pick I mean why would you
be a bad candidate because I'm a shark in a row only everybody else intones like big muscular
the men get laws exiting moose hunt sitting here I am just a little old rollie woman and also has
asthma which she says makes running after perks that challenge in my mind you know they're
gonna hear me please do so although though exactly how far behind I am from them one quick
hearing too easy they know they got away but the man who was policing mountain village of
the time insisted she be that so and decided to go fishing and praying that I'll be on my knees
under grow own holding the monks stick steady as for the tournament nature looking up fact
this guy with two sons breeze coming toen not be as an inhaler D Press medical killings and it's
crazy for everything that is bothering me analyst I think I should do it so I should do something
like this a bomb I want to cite the first sign came from mountain villages current police officer
he deal with application they encouraged me to the second one was a little kid I was that he
was caving there like I deserve a surge like not yet grab off and I I've never seen Nick kicked the
staying were like to like her you don't are just too Angel the third sign came from a village elder
she came to these she said that I would make a really good police officer and kind of smiled and
isn't Whoa I'm putting my application and today and Adair Turner my application at 5 o'clock
that evening I got sworn in and my she started at midnight then the same cop who
recommended the and join fors promptly quit affords and was on her home it takes and about
a minute to respond to a call about that fight was stashed the paper plate and Green beans on
the backseat and pull up in front of a dusty House near the top of the Hill the front doors open
and I watched and walk briskly inside then she Ducks out and get on the phone throws the
woman inside has tried to kill herself and removes a rope and a knife House and frozen in
5

movie theaters and co-pays a group of city employees to veer into the front yard on E TVs not
villages city manager pushes her way into the House a full rotten it looks like someone just
woke her up they need help carrying the woman out she's fighting back and catching her breath
from crossing our fingers that team you can grow you can make At some point I realized that
and his daughter Princess is here to she's dribbling her green basketball in front of the House
pretending to play it really just watching us I'm responding to a call Princess and shots in this
forced cheerful voice and her daughter from alaki a few guys from mountain villages water and
sewer Department show a lot and they hold the woman into the back of a pickup with a broken
door the closest thing mound village has to an ambulance and is the one who's going to drive
the truck so we hafta switch cars she asked me to grab the evidence out of the old one can do
anything like okay I think they were a few men jumped in the back of a pickup to stream the
one very and swerves down the Hill towards mountain villages small health this makes 54
different people 54 different people who attempted suicide in about 6 months if we con very
pizza about 67 and if you've been a first responder at all Yes according to Anna's police records
between 5 and 7% of the town's entire population attempted suicide and a six-month period
and that has helped save them all she responded to up to 3 suicide attempts and day she's cut
down people tried to hang themselves she hasn't lost anyone that's right and it saved his life in
her night is just getting started a snap judgment.
B_MAR_WASH_4

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 1 • 2:24 PM

Watching over mountain village episode last week left and it just helps save a woman's life it is
not the first time they cannot be the last step just he dropped off the woman who attempted
suicide at the clinic have to get out of her bloody clothes with her being a close to work she
didn't wear gloves during a suicide attack in the city not village sometimes runs out of a
senseless more bloody clothes all they like myself what I call it a bloody dirty look at me wonder
what that well you know I might scare that and says gallows humor keeps you going and this
job I'm not really sure how to react to be honest so pretty soon I'm laughing tail on God she is
so whatever's wages gave Marty about a Grand jury right now and her kids are living in a tworoom House that doesn't have plumbing she only makes 13 $ an hour an old friend of hers is
over there taking care of things well and doesn't work he's watching rogue one on and some
can Couch he's a former mountain village police officer himself and he's also made dinner for us
pork chops and mashed potatoes we eat mongoose is like this every Friday you can be serious
and that sinks and the Couch it's around 7 o'clock and she helped save one person this night not
overreact the job as relentless butt and and Institute she has this ability to talk tech absolutely
anyone about pretty much any effect and that comes in handy when you're trying to deescalate
the situation on or talk someone down from suicide that was clear from Anna's very first call it
came in around two in the morning Yeah that was loaded guns also a man in the village was
threatening to shoot himself and responded to the call alone and when she got to his House he
was standing on the porch with a shotgun under his chance you know quite bold by personal
tragedy he's trying to see if Wright connected in a wave to look and feel that they weren't alone
she talked to him for about 45 minutes about how she could understand where he is coming I
know how it feels to be an eclectic unloved she surrendered the gunman reluctantly is said me
6

can I take a look at it and I started goop me it was acquiring it Wow I I'm all good Michelle put it
in my pocket and that was I saw had a bullet in my office by the way they thought was a
reminder of how close Pat was is this the first person whose life you say it Yes and it doesn't get
any easier whenever and response to a suicide she has to fill out this form called a title 47 am if
she needs to send a survivor away to hospital the nearest one is a 100 miles away this is just
this year this is just the last couple nights is to stay calm I I just I'm sorry I am serious he repeats
this is another repeat phone T this is number 4 I'm her for repeat so far I'm just one person
fight for machines so she's 15 years old movement a 15 year-old girl tried 5 times to commit
suicide doesn't that screamed more than help she doesn't think they are getting the care they
need that nearby hospital is understaffed and Alaska state hospitals routinely run out of bed for
people be a few bites of pork chops and imports both contain clashes could shake up and watch
Hogan recently notched a seat so said temps does make me feel really sick attempted suicide
and I was so young at one point I tried to take a handful of pills and survived and his family kept
running out of clothes and heating field she was candid but she got together with her first
boyfriend she felt like she was transitioning away from becoming a different person I think it
was because he's always made me laugh your goals early on he was already really beats she up
pregnant and had her first child a little blaming brain and I was 16 I knew me reminisce just a
baby I was going through a really bad phase with the boyfriend at the time ever and I was really
depressed I couldn't take it anymore I felt like I had nobody to turn to nobody to talk to
eliminate it too it was shot Dawson a fresh start often sold for I said Oh I took a handful of pills I
was so kind her cousin found her and ran to get help and was flown to a nearby hospital like
everyone else my members are waking up and seeing the hospital why it's looking over and
seeing now calls really worried face he seemed anxious or nervous soon we saw water didn't
members I think they'll both Graham and and and it really hit me know exactly host to put
violence and how selfish I was beaten didn't think anything specific about Raymond that
moment Yeah I wanted to be there for him and his future I was wondering I do nobody else can
provide for your kids better than their mom or their dad to and so I wanted to be there to
watch him grow you know I had to learn how to live from toronto to as a mother and as a
person how to live how to bring to Cycle of abuse and alcohol the destruction and her kids rely
on each other sometimes her kids just show up when she responded to calls the way Princess
standing in the middle of that suicide attempt and says they like to check and see if she's okay
was signed K my costs even my perfect world Larry Soler asking all credit I think find its place
Department the deal Dell's Yeah I'm going to go do that person is killed what our call forget I
really slam I won they were no one in custody might relate to other calls but they got there with
there okay Yeah I don't time I did that I I thought it was bad I was a kid growing up we didn't
have these opioids and these pills it's making them do things that they normally wouldn't do.

7

KING-SEA (NBC)
Mar 2 • 6:42 PM

B_MAR_WASH_5

reporter: king 5 investigator found dozens of injured workers with dismal life altering outcomes
after graduation. they get a certificate but no skills, no job, and then no more benefits from the
state. the stress was so daunting, angela considered take her life. . >> at one point in time, i
wanted to die. because it's hard. when you are -- when you work so hard to earn a living and try
to have a decent life, and have it all taken from you. >> reporter: did this program make it
worse? >> yes. yeah. because i -- i am like don't know computers. i am like how will i do this? >>
the instructor can demonstrate what to do. >> reporter: the school's owner david jordan says
offers a quality program and has not received any complaints. >> we have no reason to believe
that we are defrauding anybody or not doing a great job. so, if there's a problem, we are not
hearing about it. >> reporter: the state's heard about it and lni expert authored the 2017 study
saying the school shows little to no evidence of using best practice and it's a problem that
doesn't work well for student success. >> it's extremely frustrating. >> reporter: katherine
mason is one of dozens of attorneys representing injured workers who have complained to l
and i. she wrote the letter about a client diana, in 2008. 12 years ago. saying with the shabby
office careers training, it is ludicrous to think she could get a job as an office clerk. and urged
the state to take sometime to look into office careers. >> the state of washington knows. they
know. four years. for years and years and years. >> reporter: and for the last six years, judges
across the state have repeatedly ruled office careers is harming not helping the disabled
workers a spokane county judge found rachel jones learned next to nothing at the school. he
blasted the system saying one easily might infer this whole vocational plan was an l and i ruse
to rid itself of a troublesome injured worker. is office careers an easy way to cut people off
from their benefits? >> absolutely not true from my perspective. >> reporter: rich wilson
oversees the worker retraining program at l and i and admits to hearing about problems and
says, they have taken action. >> and most recently we initiated an audit of the school. >>
reporter: that's great you are doing an audit now but some people might say what took you so
long? >> yes. >> reporter: >> yeah, and i you know, i am not happy about that. things don't
always move quickly with state government. >> reporter: the state has not moved quickly with
this either. following state law. there's one on the books saying l and i can only use schools with
where 50% of students get jobs after graduation. office careers doesn't produce any job
placement information. >> unbelievable to me. >> reporter: senator skies cert chair of the
senate labor and commerce committee.is it acceptable they are not following. >> of course not.
>> reporter: their own policy. >> we have to figure out where things have gone sideways.
what's the reason, what's the excuse, let's fix it. >> reporter: so we do expect some legislative
action on this in the coming months. and in the meantime, there's a moratorium on sending
any new injured workers to office careers. we don't know how long that will last. l and i says
this is in placeuntil they get to the bottom of what's going on. and have their own investigation
underway. >> makes you wonder how many workers over the many, many years have gone
through the program and got no skills no jobs and no benefits. >> reporter: it's been over 600
people maybe up to a thousand. and we are busy interviewing as many as we can. >> with no
job data. >> reporter: yeah. >> that's shocking. >> reporter: yeah. >> wow. . >> all right. well,
there's more to this story. >> reporter: that's right. >> to come for sure. >>> for more
8

information text the key word virus -- sorry this has to do with the coronavirus. not your story.
but for more information on susanna's story go to king5.com. >> thanks.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 2 • 2:25 PM

B_MAR_WASH_6

the civil case on behalf of the parents of Susan Cox Powell resumes today in Pierce County
compared say the state should have done more to protect his sons from their father Josh
Powell who was suspected of the disappearance of Susan 2009 3 years later he killed himself
and the boys Susan Cox Powell's father Chuck expected to testify today.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 2 • 6:36 PM

B_MAR_OREG_2

disturbing trend. young adults, teenagers and even children dying by suicide. even as numbers
increase in oregon, lawmakers and schools are pledging to take action. one district prior toizing
mental health in classrooms. part of our "better together" initiative. bringing us this special
report. >> the oregon health authority tracks suicide and year after year more teens and
children ages 10 to 24 are taking their lives. kaiser public schools is one district that suffered the
loss of students. they are trying to help stop preventible tragedies. science, math, english. in
the world of all things school, there is a new subject becoming a cornerstone of public
education. mental health. >> the fact of the matter suicide rates are trending up. >> lawmakers
are calling it a crisis. children and teens are dying by suicide by alarming rates. preliminary state
data shows youth suicide increased 26% in 2018. the numbers are more than doubled in the
last decade and younger children are increasingly becoming suicidal. state experts say there is
no single cause to blame. they believe increased screen time, online bullying and social media
can contribute to emotional issues. >> all of our children are at risk. so it's really hard to -because the truth is, kids stress out. that's the truth. >> that's why school districts are putting
more emphasis on teaching emotional wellness and suicide prevention. not just in high school.
the district is talking to students well-being and incorporating age-appropriate mental health
lessons at every great level. the district is expanding employee suicide prevention training. now
even bus drivers, cafeteria workers and custodians will know the signs. when school counselors
are offer stretched glin state-wide, as you know. >> another tactic, bringing outside help in.
here is support from kids who have been there. >> anna is a college student and volunteers
with a branch of the non-profit lines for life. they expected walker middle school, one of the
schools touched by tragedy. >> i think the thing that pushes people over the edge is isolation
and feeling like you can't talk to other people. >> the oregon health authority wants more
programs like these kroot the state. for the first time it has the resources to help. lawmakers
recently dedicated $6 million to youth suicide prevention, allowing them to form partnerships,
develop curriculums and grants for education. >> that fear is hope and connection and
relationship-building. >> more open, honest conversations and less shame. >> i do think. >>
hope that's the key to reverse a devastating trend. >> the oregon health authority says girls are
more likely to attempt suicide. but boys are more likely to die by suicide. lgbtq youth are
disproportionately affected. the statistics might be scary but one adult can make all the
9

difference. for a suicide prevention hot line and resources of how to talk to a child about suicide
and how to get them help, better our better together page at www.kptv.com.
KTVZ (NBC)
Mar 3 • 6:51 PM

B_MAR_OREG_3

women who have general anesthesia most commonly used during c-sections are significantly
more likely to experience severe post-partum depression - according to a recent study.
researchers from columbia university studied more than 428-thousand hospital discharge
records in new york from a seven year period -- they determined women who had general
anesthesia were 54-percent more likely to experience postpartum depression -- and 91-percent
more likely to have thoughts of suicide or self-harm -- compared to those who had regional
anesthesia like spinal blocks or epidurals. researchers suggest their findings may be because
general anesthesia induces sleep -- delaying breastfeeding and skin to skin interaction between
the mother and infant -- it also often results in more acute and persistent pain after childbirth.
the authors caution that their findings don't necessarily mean that general anesthesia causes
postpartum depression... and more research is being done. they say it can be good in some
situations -- like when an emergency c- section is required. but they say general anesthesia
should be avoided when possible. for today's health minute, i'm mandy gaither.
KNDO (NBC)
Mar 3 • 5:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_7

umatilla county firefighters are investigating a house fire... that turned into a suicide
investigation. crews were called to the chateaubri mobile home park on southwest 11th street
just after 8 o'clock last night. when they arrived they quickly worked to put out the fire but
during their interior search firefighters found a 25 year old man dead inside from a self inflicted
gun shot wound. firefighters say the fire started in the back of the house. hermiston police are
now investigating.
KONG-SEA
Mar 4 • 12:23 PM

B_MAR_WASH_8

welcome both of you. this is one of those addiction behavior problems. we don't really spend
much time thinking about. why is that? it's under attended too. >> it's very under attended to.
that's something we work every day to do, because it's very, very common. it's hidden and
where something is widely accepted,ing the fact that people might struggle with that is also
highly stigmatized. there's incentive to not talk about it. and we need to have more people
talking about. >> people can do that and not have it show up in the rest of their lives in terms of
the public, anyway. >> interesting. >> and i think an important point is when you look at what
reflects what you're talking about, if you look at the amount of money that's set aside
nationally for drug and alcohol treatment. it's about 340 times as much asset aside for gambling
addiction, even though there's only about four times more prevalent than gambling addiction.
there's a huge disconnect between the need for services and the money set aside to provide
10

those services. >> probably everybody has gone to a blackjack table at some point of their life.
what's the difference between gambling for fun, you're in vegas for a weekend and problem
gambling. >> someone can spend $10,000, but if they're a millionaire, they go in and it doesn't
have an negative effect on the social life or finances, they're good to go and others may spend
$20 and that is money for diapers and they could have a problem with gambling. michael
jordan could spend $1 million and he's good to go. >> in terms of impact, what's the
compulsion, what is the behavior, what causes people to do it. >> it acts in the brain like
substances do. it releases dopamine in the brain, do it again, this is fun. do it again. and for
some it's just entertainment, that's what it is, it's recreational, social. that's great, for other
people it can be a problem when their brain gets rewired. there are brain changes. we can see
the brain changes. we can observe the brain changes. through treatment, they experience
recovery in this and they start feeling more control and memory and cognitive functions and
learning and overall control of their life and well-being. >> it's the addiction to shopping when
you're excited about the purchase rather than want something you're buying. >> if you're
looking across the landscape of your life and signs for this and people around up in an effort to
help, what would you be looking for. >> the biggest one is time, it's time away, because often,
this can be a hidden addiction, you're not seeing the hang over, there's nothing that may be
obvious, in terms of a hangover. it's more subtle, that's why it gets ignored nationally and
locally. that's why it's important for us to be focusing on this. there are a lot of aspects. >> it has
financial impacts, relationship impacts that can affect sleep, mood, anxiety, depression, it can
have problems in every area of a person's life, just because they can afford what they're
spending, doesn't mean it can be a problem, it can cause problems, emotionally and physically
and relationally. >> it has the highest suicide rate of any disorder. one out of 4 with the disorder
attempt suicide. they don't think about it and have a problem. they actually do the thing to kill
themselves. if i'm sitting in one of my treatment groups and 12 of them, i know at least 3 of
them have tried to kill themselves. that is the one most important piece to say we need to take
this seriously. people are dying because of this. >> we consider all of this treatment to be life
saving efforts. >> take it seriously. >> i've never known that, what's different about this group.
>> i opened it up to my groups. why do you think you this is. >> you can use the money you
have, but money that you don't have. it's not like a hangover, okay, i went on a banger and i'm
okay. you may have spent your kids college education fund. could you be have thousands of
dollars of credit card debt and the spouse or partner doesn't know what's happening. >> that
can happen until anybody knows about it and it's way too late and the money is owed. >> the
problem gambling awareness month is a good time to talk about this clearly. what are some of
the activities that happen during this month and tell me a bit about treatment that might be
available. >> well, problem gambling awareness month is a busy month for us. we're doing it on
a bigger scale than what we do all year long. there is national gambling disorder gambling day,
march 10th, and we have al list of locations across the state, it makes gambling screens
available and resource information. >> somebody can get a screening and they can do that at.
>> we can do it privately and with professionals and they can take one at home and think about
it and call the help line to get more information. every tuesday we're doing a twitter chat. and
each tuesday, a different taupe i can about problem gambling and having experts come in
where we can have discussion of the issues and getting them out. >> what are the treatment
options. >> really there's a until of them. there is inpatient treatment available and evergreen
11

council and problem gambling. there's a lot of outpatient treatment that's available. >> a lot
more outpatient. >> and a lot of tribes have their own programs, some are tribal only and some
offer services for tribal and nontribal members. they give a lot of money towards addressing
gambling addictions. >> thank you both, i learned a lot. >> i learned a lot today. i appreciate. >>
thank you so much. >> remember the washington state problem help line is available by call or
text 24/7. that number is on your screen right now.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 4 • 6:07 PM

B_MAR_OREG_4

let's turn to washington where frankly, things are happening. that includes progress on a bill
that we covered in the wake of a crime. that shook us all. >>> she was given a no contact order.
for 64 days in a row. he violated that. >> the tiffany hill bill passed unanimously in the house
today. with amendments. it goes back to the senate. if it is approved, it is expected to pass
overall. the lawmaker behind us is from vancouver. she was abused as a child. she has tried for
years to get this bill passed. when tiffany's story passed in november, this lawmaker knew it
was beyond time. she was murdered by her husband in front of her children in a school parking
lot. that has been, who later shot and killed himself, had been violating a no contact order left
and right. he threatened tiffany, he put a tracker on her car. the laws weren't strong enough to
to protect her. this bill would set up a system where a judge can order accused abusers to wear
a gps monitor. they are linked to an app on the victim's phone. when the abuser gets close
enough, to violate the no contact order, and alarm would go off. letting the victim, no they
need to leave that space. the lawmaker behind this, says it would have saved tiffany because it
would have given her a heads up that her husband was in that same parking lot. we have much
more on the story and the progress that is made Wednesday lawmakers are actually there to
vote, at kgw.com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 4 • 11:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_5

oregon is now 11th in the country for youth suicides. the state health department released new
numbers showing suicide is now the leading cause of death for kids ages 10 to 24. katherine
kisiel joins us live in news control with this story. katherine, you talked with health experts
about this and what are they saying tonight? >> reporter: steve, unfortunately they are not
surprised. they say it is another indication that as a society we need to do better. the leading
cause of death between 10 and 24-year-olds is suicide. that sounds shocking. >> it is shocking. it
is shocking that when you look at the numbers where even five, six years ago, it was 90 and
now we are at 129. what is going on? there is so much out there now, so much support. we've
got youth line. we've got lights for life, trainings and things like that, and yet we still have kids
who feel alone and feel in that moment that that is the only solution for them. >> reporter:
doctor robin henderson is the chief executive. she said despite efforts to support youth they are
facing societal and school pressures that need to be addressed early on. >> we have kids
identifying with mental illness and kids with gender disphoria and all of those factor that's we
are not able to get kids access to care where they present. >> the pressure is on now that
12

suicide has surpassed unintentional deaths like overdoses and car crashes. dr. henderson says
one reason it is number one is more people are reporting it. that's an important step. there's
more. >> connection is the most important thing we can do. when somebody is struggling or
even if they are feeling alone, there is always somebody there to listen. >> dr. henderson
referenced 90 to 129. she was talking about 90 suicides in 2015 and 129 suicides in 2018. she
says this is a huge jump. of course, it is one of the reasons why it is now -- suicide is the leading
cause of death in oregon. live in news control, katherine kisiel, katu news. >> deb: it is a good
idea to write these numbers down to give to your kids and program into their phones. it is the
youth line number. 877-968-8491. it offers peer to peer counseling and they can text teen to
teen
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 5 • 4:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_6

suicide was the leading cause of death for organ use in 2018 according to new data from the
U.S. centers for disease control and Prevention era hall reports in 2018 129 Oregonians aged 24
or younger died by suicide with this new data oregon is now ranked as the 11th highest in the
nation for you the suicide rates previously the leading causes of death for young Oregonians
were unintentional injuries and drug overdoses Oregon governor Kate Brown included more
than 6 million dollars for suicide Prevention in her biennial budget the Oregon health authority
says this is the first time this work has been funded by the state Dr. Dana hard enough money is
Oregon health Authority's chief medical officer we continue to prioritize our where costs are
working to support young people are in school of at home and in our communities that money
is being used for measures including funding Oregon's suicide Prevention lifeline.
Fox 12 Plus
Mar 7 • 8:10 PM

B_MAR_OREG_7

today, hundreds of people shined a light on suicide awareness. an "out of the darkness" walk
was held at wilson high school in southwest Portland.... the event is one of hundreds going on
nationwide this year -- fighting for suicide prevention. an estimated 800-thousand people take
their own lives every year around the world -- with the suicide rate especially high for teens and
young adults. so events like these are crucial to opening up dialogue about mental health. (("it's
all about continuing to raise awareness and reducing the stigma. so the more people see people
in their community, it reduces that separation, it reduces that people struggling are somehow
other. it's very common.")) all the money raised today is going to the American foundation for
suicide prevention.
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 5 • 12:17 PM

B_MAR_OREG_8

oregon is now 11th in the country for youth suicide, the state health department just released
new numbers showing suicide is now the leading cause of death for ages 10-24. catherine from
her sister station in portland is speaking with health experts on the growing problem. >>
13

reporter: the leading cause of death between 10-24-year- olds is suicide. that sounds shocking.
>> it is shocking and it is shocking when you look at the numbers were even five or six years
ago, it was you know, 90 and now we are at 129. what is going on? there is so much out there,
so much support, we have got youth line and lives for life, we have trainings and yet, we still
have kids who feel alone and feel in that moment that that is the only solution for them. >> dr.
robin henderson is the chief executive of behavioral health with providence. she says despite
efforts to support youth, they are still facing suicidal and school pressures that need to be
addressed early on. >> we have kids identifying with mental illness and kids with gender
dysphoria, all those types of factors that we are not able to get kids access to care where they
present. >> the pressure is on now that suicide has surpassed unintentional depth like
overdoses and car crashes. dr. henderson says one reason it is number one is that more people
are reporting it which is an important step but there is more. >> connection is the most
important thing we can do, when someone is struggling or feeling alone, there is always
somebody there to listen. >> dr. henderson referenced 90- 129, she was talking about 90
suicide in oregon in 2015 to 129 in 2018. she says that is a huge dump and one of the reasons it
is a leading cause of death for young people in the state.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 7 • 11:46 AM

B_MAR_WASH_9

his little brother gavin point the finger to his head and pulled the pretend trigger he snaps his
head back yet that's what happened what you do is pull shot in the lung meet we didn't know
he was forthright mom we did it in can't wait I got added no you didn't see him money found
him and he started he started that did your time I know her I didn't touch him okay she
millionaires are blake the dead because she saw blood and things pop up on him Yeah I mean
and he was like a terrific guy so nice so generous to always help anyone he is a terrific guy but
what what what did you learn here to help you the most understand how he died sometimes
that task telling the kids with their parent committed suicide cost Joe McFarlane because the
surviving parent or Guardian might be so inside their own grief that they can't bring themselves
to do it to explain suicide simply issue does other kinds of death there's a sickness in your brain
called depression she says and can make you decide to make your own body stop working she
says it's required the kids know how their brother or sister or mother died before starting the
group one had one family say he died from because the SEC own family said he died in a car
accident one family said he accidentally shot himself he didn't mean to it was June who helped
her mom break the new stadium and Gavin that they're dead shot himself she says that
conversation was especially hard the boys immediately said you don't you don't know my God
why did you say that you don't know it's me so I know I don't know you and your mom your
headache she needs she needed my help and playing this because really hard and scary thing
happened and your own told me about what happened and it didn't just was like you're crazy
lady there's no way that we're going to talk about this this is not what happened is horrible and
awful and I cried about whole night I just it was just awful I just felt so horrible and my husband
like you can do this you have a code to the director and tell the you can do this again Luminous
suicide is always one of the highest if not the highest cause of death for sharing place family is
at any given time there's actually a special group devoted specifically to suicide and a lot of the
14

stories you hear in that group are so horrible that you can't help but wonder are White tell the
kids what happened at all I just saved they die and you needed a according to jill and her
colleagues we need to tell children so they won't find out later in life and wonder what else said
they lied to me that they also don't want to have to cloak it in a way that suggests is
unspeakable island chain Fla he get enough of that idea day at school this is easy again whose
father also shot himself with some people ask why are they saying this makes me feel very sad
to the same event happened went down somebody killed dozens Selves that means they go to
the wrong place I don't believe that but it just makes me feel really sad when they save that's I
said I'm going to happen to save Goto sat the either even if he'd even if you don't leave it to
you know it's nonsense it's spoken hurt that someone would say that Yeah it does scare is like
it's like somebody judging that judging that Papa it's to not a bad thing for a lot people do that
but you know just kind of feels and then we urge like on the inside it makes me feel like I'm
going to scream night H something like that one of the things you wish that people would say
probably it's okay age dead and that has happened and them I mean we can help you with
them feeling better and them understanding it that's probably something glad somebody said
once the child knows heather loved one guy and they're encouraged to say it out loud is kind of
sorcery to it naming the dragons you can defeat it I sat in on the suicide group which is different
than the other groups that kids tend to come to meetings for a longer period of time partly
because they didn't get to say goodbye the kids in a circle at the beginning of the meeting and
hand around talking stick one by one they say their name who died and how they died my
name the C.I.A.'s and that person need dad was my dad and he the key guy bad shape full
moons himself listen again and team it and he wanted to her my name is clinton see my dad die
he tanked by suicide and I regret seeing him because I hadn't seen him for a couple of months
before his death there's also a different question they respond to each time they meet what I
miss most about the person is there anything you don't miss tonight's question is what he
regrets my name is season and the person who died his my dad's he died the shooting so for
the hand and for hand figurine threat Swedish caring man can take a long time for them to get
to this point where they can say the words suicide is sharing place never correct any of the kids
are forces them to say anything they don't want to but they notice when a child is finally able to
say it on the other hand he and his brother gavin the six-year-old talks about his dad's suicide
incessantly he also draws guns during playtime many scopes amount of play-doh this is Joe
McFarlane again he tells everybody that's all I got shot his brains and freaked everybody out
and so many get in trouble school which then he was like I guess I can't ever talk about my dad
but this help can earn stock and process think this is easy for them to talk about it scares other
people off is it okay for kids to have kids in class…
KAPP (ABC)
Mar 5 • 6:35 PM

B_MAR_WASH_10

a selah police officer has been accused of domestic violence, assault and sexual misconduct
spanning several years. the accusations against sergeant jerald smith sparked a months-long
investigation by washington state patrol. kapp-kvew obtained investigative documents that
detail the claims. w-s-p's investigation started with an alleged assault in 2017.......while smith
was on a break from work, but still on duty and carrying his department-issued handgun. while
15

on duty, smith was confronted by a woman he knew...and reportedly pulled a gun on her, then
turned the gun on himself and threatened to kill himself. the woman said this happened several
times, including him tracking her car and physically threatening her. during the investigation,
state troopers learned about another incident...where smith confronted a woman who also
worked at the police department. he reportedly threatened to kill her in front of other
employees. another former employee told investigators they left because of smith's
inappropriate behavior. smith previously worked as a student resource officer at selah high
school. following up on rumors about smith having sex with students, investigators found one
woman who confirmed she drank alcohol and had sex with smith in 2011. however, the woman
told police she was 18 at the time, the encounter was consensual and that she did not feel like
a victim. smith was confronted by superior officers and reportedly voluntarily entered a mental
health treatment program. court documents show smith is currently in a facility in scottsdale,
arizona. in a report on february 3rd, investigators said smith was still an officer with the selah
police department. however, in a statement by s-p-d today, officials said smith was placed on
administrative leave before resigning from his position. investigators say smith has denied all
allegations through his lawyer and did not provide a formal statement to police. the yakima
county prosecutor is currently reviewing the investigative findings for potential charges.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 7 • 4:54 PM

B_MAR_OREG_9

kids being allowed to express themselves is much healthier than sending them a message that
it's wrong to say this kind of stuff out loud and that's got to be a step in the right direction a
very fun memories of this is actually tried to come through the side door because that that that
was North that I always came in through I have no legal like using adult and trades finally serum
Hamas hasn't been to the share In place for a full 6 years she's 21 now when she was 11 her
older brother hang himself even though he was supposed to be babysitting her her parents told
her to keep an eye on him because of his past suicide attempts obviously what happened
wasn't her fault but she blamed herself which is something I heard other kids here talk about to
it's easy for an adult to say don't be silly it's not your fault but it's a whole other thing to talk
with the kid the sharing places says I know exactly what you're talking about it was it was kind
of nice scene and the older kids who was S E a L loved ones had been gone for for a few years
how they were able to good school normally and it's just live their normal lives because I just
don't want to go to school I didn't want to be with kids he just didn't know it was just it was too
hard it's the kids themselves decide when they're ready to stop coming to sharing place but on
average they stay about two years there ready to leave they have announced their intention to
times and group before their final goodbyes interview that would like to say something to him
which I'm sure Cheryl if you well the good by a ceremonial and on the last night I was there at
the end of the meeting they said goodbye to kidney robby he sat in a circle with the other kids
and volunteers and anybody who wanted to could pick up the talking stick and say a few words
his friend Jessica was last kid to do so own out that plane missed here because I want my best
friend in this group and its out the Sino and other major fight that we had in the volcano room
it was not my fault you do not hold does this really fun then I'm gonna miss seeing and saying
Allah you and Robbie last meeting there was a kid who just showed up his first meeting the
16

blond bangs hanging over his size and except for his name didn't say anything the whole time
whatever new person joins the veteran kids have a chance to gauge their own progress to
remember what they were like when they for showed up and think about how bad it used to be
and now it isn't as and ultimately like robbie the make way for someone on a long waiting list a
list of which new names are added all the time the say I think it's time to go.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 5 • 12:25 PM

B_MAR_OREG_10

you feel better knowing the sun is shining down in portland this morning. >> absolutely. that
one in nine american women suffer symptoms of postpartum depression, according to the
centers for disease control and prevention. >> a study suggests some women may be more
likely to experience the illness. mindy gaither has more. reporter: women who have general
anesthesia most commonly used during c-sections are significantly more likely to experience
severe postpartum depression, according to a recent study. researchers from columbia
university studied more than 428,000 hospital discharge records in new york from a seven-year
period. they determined women who had general anesthesia were 54% more likely to
experience postpartum depression, and 91% more likely to have thoughts of suicide or self
harm, compared to those who had regional anesthesia like spinal blocks or epidurals.
researchers suggest findings may be because general anesthesia induces sleep, delaying breastfeeding and skin to skin interaction between the mother and infant and results in more acute
and persistent pain after childbirth. the authors caution findings don't necessarily mean that
general anesthesia causes postpartum depression and more research is being done. it can be
good in some situations like when an emergency c-section is required but general anesthesia
should be avoided when possible. for today's health minute, i'm mandy gaither.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 5 • 7:40 AM

B_MAR_OREG_11

new data shows suicide was the leading cause of death among Oregon Youth can excels just
McDonnell has more or it is now ranked 11th in the nation for youth suicide the CDC released
data showing that suicide was the leading cause of death among organ youth ages 10 to 24 in
2018 see if that continues to be concerning Holliman organic cost each groups including you
and this new data confirm that stand hard enough money away Jays chief medical officer 2018
CDC data is included in the 2019 youth suicide intervention intervention plan annual report was
released the legislature earlier this week governor Kate Brown included more than 6 million for
suicide Prevention in her budget for the 2019 2021 period.
KEPR (CBS)
Mar 6 • 6:13 AM

B_MAR_WASH_11

we are learning more about alleged threats made by a woman at a school in a lockdown earlier
this week. we have since learned the woman is 8 months pregnant. she was arrested on
wednesday. police say she threatened to kill her unborn child. according to police, they
17

received a call about a suicidal woman making threats to family members nearby. that caused a
lockdown at the school. she surrendered to police and they say the handgun turned out to be a
bb gun. she is facing three counts of felony harassment.

18

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Mar 7 • 8:15 PM

B_MAR_WASH_12

started to heal program which was intended to who give us some way to intervene the lives of
veterans and family members themselves prices while we did a great job of putting resources
around veterans hope is to we're storing records we want to make sure they were keeping up
with the latest in terms of best practices our chief medical executive stripes and I decided to
enter but had assist train which stands for applied suicide intervention schools kind and this the
global standard for apply what's hard to psych first day so this allows us to work we're not
going to save everybody we're not gonna stop everybody from want to digress things we can do
we get immediate moment to live it healthy that true decide at least at the moment I would
just like you saw a little longer but hang in here be safer now you hear that term a lot if you if
you go through the kind be safer now is the whole point working get that that trend to a point
where at least I can connect the resources it hopefully those resources will keep them safe
forever she idea but but if we trying to solve every problem and and global Ocean with this one
of this a lot of things because it's just not possible but we were very happy to let a timid trade
incorporated into our shield program is this the kind of thing that people and that's posts can
take become certified and and in vain known now with their hour at the Post they see
somebody maybe by himself or they hear somebody they overhear conversations was talking
about how do you now live to is not going right they can jump right in and say Let's talk assist
does special court should position a O the person who hears upscale old and an armed with the
skills to take a person from crisis to a point where you D escalated crisis enough and it's not
easy to do because everybody's got a different reason for why they find themselves virtuous
being down the River before the Golden waterfall one make sure we put some effort into
opening their eyes the choices that Yeah part honored to have alternatives to dying I'm choose
have to understand the choices you also have to assist units before was assisting life forget
consist of the city Cari and it was a very deliberate way to do it that it's closer dad emissions a
moment again and see the structure of the Holy See's don't follow and many works well we've
applied if you're tired of some cases it works well put me in this getting here and sit in
Manhattan in the murder of talk of my friends but if I'm looking around the room what might I
see if I see somebody that could be exhibiting signs that they need someone right now we don't
know side as opposed to court if they give you a reason to even suspected of thinking about
taking their lives here she is talking about taking her life you have to ask the question are you
thinking about harming yourself are contemplating suicide lot of people don't do that because
it in some people's minds and posted a personal record Action nor is taboo there's a stigma
attached to it but once it teaches you have to Yeah I know that I want to solve your open you
begin a process of work taking that individual from think about death to think about connecting
to life to think about how it actually looks sort of a good number one my plan is it you always
suspected something wrong you have to ask a question are you think about suicide and then
you can you develop that confidence to deal with the cancer to assist train to our you support I
will paraphrase real quick if they give you a reason to think something is wrong that's that's a
powerful statement and I think because it is so subjective that's wide open it could be just
meaning somebody to barstools down the talking about how they just lost a job it could be
another person you run into that just happened you know saying they're going through a tough
19

time divorce maybe like you know they just someone that appears to be having a tough time
and lies and it Sanders but but up we all face tributaries when all these things that push us into
a direction where life is not great it difference say this I support what's keeping you from going
from a person who has a prop limbs to personal suicidal so cial not comment the horses are
coming they could see his comment about their medical of medical issues and financial issues
it's not kind of those with those things drive you tour one of desperation the thing about taking
your life so that's a different type of art where of the dams breaking down with us for
supporters quick dour we talk about their shared we talk about the mental health issue that's
been diagnosed or not Seoul which is not affected got problems it's a tall person see the
problems and whether they thought life is worth living as a deal with things are relatively
common full she engaged and having the courage to ask question I love it Hey we will learn
more about this program and what we learn more about how I can find the summer you can
almost online and pick each user handle and social media Facebook and Twitter also or and the
stock or backslash that cash heal each eat 8 though you can see all the work we do doing film
she was sort of like training program to the yard first Press releases and an op Ed we've put
now to advance discussion around committing suicide and then from there he is getting cocked
it put us through our various channels and I will be happy to talk anyone about what we're
doing enough to get involved.
KOHD (ABC)
Mar 6 • 6:42 AM

B_MAR_OREG_12

new questions about security at the jail where sex offender jeffrey epstein died by suicide last
year. investigators have reportedly found a loaded gun that was smuggled into new york
metropolitan correctional center. according to the associated press, the discovery has triggered
a new investigation of misconduct by guards at the jail. two workers on duty that night epstein
died are facing indictment for allegedly falsifying records.
KXLY (ABC)
Mar 6 • 5:36 AM

B_MAR_WASH_13

every year -- suicide claims the lives of thousands of people -- and áchanges the lives of the
families and friends they leave behind. as someone who's come close to losing a loved one to
suicide... devin fleck has spent the last six years trying to comfort those families... with an
auction called "cakes for a cause." fleck created the auction to help local families affected by
suicide pay for funeral costs and counseling. fleck says this year has been the best yet... because
bakers from across north idaho joined in to donate their cakes. 16:47:23:04 (10) devin
fleck/creator, cakes for a cause"people care. when you get this many people banding together
to help on something, there's no denying that people want to help you and care about
you."devin's auction runs until sunday. we have a link to the auction... and a gallery of cakes...
right now on kxly dot-com.

20

News Radio KEX
Mar 5 • 6:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_13

our top story suicide is the leading cause of death among organ youth between the ages of 10
and 24 and 28 team chief medical officer for the Oregon health authority Dianna heart
community says the state is spending 6 million $ to prevent youth suicides we continue to
prioritize our work across the organ to support young people in schools at home and in our
communities organized delray 11th highest the nation for youth suicides.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 5 • 3:20 PM

B_MAR_OREG_14

if you listen to the program you know that I'm a believer in life I want I want convicted killers to
get life one unborn baby's to have a life all I want people not to take their own lives I don't
believe in suicide then I understand that there is no way that you can stop a human being from
taking his or her own life I can't stop it we have laws against it so we give the government the
authority to intervene so of police officers driving down the Street and is crossing a bridge he
sees somebody about to jump we get that also the authority to stop that person from jumping
to see perhaps we can help save them maybe they'll go on to take their lives some other way
you can't stop the individual from doing but what we could do is say to the governments of the
world don't you dare help people to kill themselves and yet Wesley Smith who has really
attracted this issue closely he's an author and senior fellow at the discovery Institute Center on
human exceptionalism Wesley and I've been talking about suicide for a good long time Wesley
where is it that the government has decided that the government should help people even
healthy people to take their online terminate what happened is he the highest court in the land
of germany I called the constitutional court I believe the issue one of the most radical of
stunning court decisions I've ever seen became involved a video law that said and Germany
have said that you cannot offend someone suicide for pain and and a course that was primarily
aimed at doctors but also with us like clinics in Switzerland next door to germany they have
suicide clinics will people go unpaid 10000 $ to be sent home and her so this law was attacked
on the court and the court maybe A.G. and incredibly breathtaking all-encompassing ruling first
to say that that self determined there for a full term from the court he suicide is a fundamental
constitutional right second you know one in euthanasia talk we usually you're dealing with
situations of illness or disability and so forth I've been saying well there's no weight limit that if
one has a right to have assisted suicide step on demand about precisely where the German
court when they said it is not limited to me quote you it's not limited situations defined by
external causes like serious or incurable illness and no different only apply and third stages of
life or almost rather this right is guaranteed in all stages of a person's legal systems close quote
that would seem to include children marvin Liebman church children who who might be
deemed have decision no capacity because with a childhood of the stage of life then they go
beyond the right to be there two suicide it have faith in a crate take constitutional right to a 5th
in suicide so bad and this is their statement quote the constitutional guarantee the right to
suicide corresponds to equally far-reaching constitutional protection extended to the acts
carried out by persons rendering suicide the assistance of somebody like Jack or him play he
21

lived in germany we have an absolute constitutional right to help people up to this suicide
machine may have to be killed in the killed many he wanted and he could do for petty I and
family member your friends could kill for you know what I'm saying I know interesting West I
want to ask you let me ask you about this because he and you know that I'm in my studios in
the state where which for To granted that the statutory right to doctor-assisted suicide the
state of oregon did that there are other places where like the netherlands what did kaine with a
wink and a nod but it wasn't officially and statute but one one good standard things they've
done in States that have made his legal and it's still a minority of U.S. States that made it legal is
they said well I don't agree with it at all but the way they said if you're going to do it you have
to be this close to death by the judgment of a doctor a couple of doctors after you than 6
months or a year of being dead so it has yet to earn a terminal illness and then they have to
determine that you are capable of making the decision that your mental state is not such that
you don't know what you're doing and and then they have specified way they do it in doctorassisted suicide with the state actually gives the doctor the authority to write a prescription
they also guard against people being depressed but under the German decision does that mean
you know there are plenty of people who've gone through periods of depression as kids and as
adults this means a depressed person could simply say my life is no longer worth living and they
could seek out the assistance of the state and say I want to kill myself I'm perfectly healthy I
don't have a disease but I'm unhappy with my life I like to end it all and the state will say well
you have a constitutional right we will help you and all that could happen well let me think
what the court said the individual decision to end their own life based on how they personally a
good find quality of life and meaningfully existence elude any evaluation on the basis of general
values religious dogma of societal norms for dealing with life and death or consideration of
objective rationality is tough not incumbent upon the individual to further explain or justify
their decision grab their decision must in principle be respected by state and society as an act of
self-determination so in other words jeff your bars staff on the me am I left one knife oppose
him clearly in capable O an act of self-determination like somebody was clearly psychotic but
good things this is very shocking and awful offense but they will the law were around controlled
substances might have to be changed to make sure that access to the right to be killed or two
suicide do with food and suicide is not impeded so this is basically a complete a tidal wave of
realism where suicide Prevention which the court kind give lip service to it if you know you have
a constitutional right to commit suicide if you know you can go your friend charlie I have charlie
if you give them 10000 dollars to help you commit suicide what kind of suicide Prevention going
to do you're just going to go to these groups that might be put out and then you're going to kill
herself there are people who listened to the show today who if they lived in germany under this
kind evade.

22

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Mar 7 • 8:10 PM

B_MAR_WASH_14

always glad to have the gel your social feed is full of the issues that I am vets is addressing and
as the oldest congressionally chartered veterans service organization it is no surprise they see
on Capitol Hill the I.C.U. tweeting and facebooking about all kinds of issues and most recently a
senior tweeting a little bit about the military suicides solution and I have to save other you and I
both know so many people have been affected by suicide and you guys are are not just
tweeting about the crisis has a problem but yet you guys are doing things rolling up your
sleeves and offer some solutions and talk to me about the Clay hunt save Act report you guys
recently discussing chairs the Clay hunt say back to the booth and create a few years ago I
mean Yeah honor of veterans advocate who took his own life this was supposed to be a road
map to solve the suicide epidemic and billions and billions of dollars dealing with dollars have
been spent since then and Unfortunately we're not seeing progress and Congress when the
crew that lobby mandated that there would be congressional report they would pay tens of
thousands of dollars for each year so they could see the progress and see how it was working
and we dug in and Unfortunately both of these reports showed that that it's just not working
nearly well enough Were only effective for about a third of the veterans were coming into the
system and when talk of the system talk about these mental health care system so big about
two-thirds are still falling through the cracks for a variety of reasons and the bottom line in the
the V.A. needs to be allowed to use that word is to you you're allowed to try new things to try
new ways to to attack this problem in move away from just that the pharmaceutical and talk
therapy he goes to work but not nearly to the extent that we need them to work now while
that's bad news embeds isn't contempt just sit hard for Congress to do something about
actually rolling up their sleeves and creating programs that can be enacted that will help make a
difference in this suicide epidemic right now I spoke about one of these programs with and
that's director of advocacy chairman Gillum junior two years ago we started to heal program
which was intended to who give us some way to intervene the lives of veterans and family
members themselves prices while we did a great job of putting resources around veterans hope
is to we're storing records we want to make sure they were keeping up with the latest in terms
of best practices our chief medical executive stripes and I decided to enter but had assist train
which stands for applied suicide intervention schools kind and this the global standard for apply
what's hard to psych first day so this allows us to work we're not going to save everybody we're
not gonna stop everybody from want to digress things we can do we get immediate moment to
live it healthy that true decide at least at the moment I would just like you saw a little longer
but hang in here be safer now you hear that term a lot if you if you go through the kind be safer
now is the whole point working get that that trend to a point where at least I can connect the
resources it hopefully those resources will keep them safe forever she idea but but if we trying
to solve every problem and and global Ocean with this one of this a lot of things because it's
just not possible but we were very happy to let a timid trade incorporated into our shield
program is this the kind of thing that people and that's posts can take become certified and and
in vain known now with their hour at the Post they see somebody maybe by himself or they
hear somebody they overhear conversations was talking about how do you now live to is not
going right they can jump right in and say Let's talk assist does special court should position a O
23

the person who hears upscale old and an armed with the skills to take a person from crisis to a
point where you D escalated crisis enough and it's not easy to do because everybody's got a
different reason for why they find themselves virtuous being down the River before the Golden
waterfall one make sure we put some effort into opening their eyes the choices that Yeah part
honored to have alternatives to dying I'm choose have to understand the choices you also have
to assist units before was assisting life forget consist of the city Cari and it was a very deliberate
way to do it that it's closer dad emissions a moment again and see the structure of the Holy
See's don't follow and many works well we've applied if you're tired of some cases it works well
put me in this getting here and sit in Manhattan in the murder of talk of my friends but if I'm
looking around the room what might I see if I see somebody that could be exhibiting signs that
they need someone right now we don't know side as opposed to court if they give you a reason
to even suspected of thinking about taking their lives here she is talking about taking her life
you have to ask the question are you thinking about harming yourself are contemplating suicide
lot of people don't do that because it in some people's minds and posted a personal record
Action nor is taboo there's a stigma attached to it but once it teaches you have to Yeah I know
that I want to solve your open you begin a process of work taking that individual from think
about death to think about connecting to life to think about how it actually looks sort of a good
number one my plan is it you always suspected something wrong you have to ask a question
are you think about suicide and then you can you develop that confidence to deal with the
cancer to assist train to our you support I will paraphrase real quick if they give you a reason to
think something is wrong that's that's a powerful statement.
88.5 KNKX
Mar 7 • 12:45 PM

B_MAR_WASH_15

hope you'll join me introduce introduce yourself I am an aging it might get bank nice suicide
suicide his Little brother haven't pointed a finger to his head and pulls the pretend trigger he
snaps his head back get it that's what happens when you do shotow Hod and we didn't know he
was a kid my mom we did it do then ruled nannies and wait got tagged no you didn't see him
money found in and he started he was already dead a U-turn and girls aren't I can text and okay
she millionaires are the Lake the dead because she saw blood and things I want to him Yeah I
mean and he was like a terrific guy so nice so generous to always help anyone you're a terrific
guy what would what did you learn here to help you the most I understand how he died
sometimes that can ask telling the kids with their parent committed suicide Frosted Joe
McFarlane because the surviving parent or Guardian might be so inside their own grief that
they can't bring themselves to do it to explain suicide simply issue does other kinds of death
there's a sickness in your brain called depression she says and can make you decide to make
your own body stop working she says it's required that the kids know how their brother or
sister or mother died before starting the group one had one family say he diet M because the
SAIC one family said he died in a car accident one family said he accidentally shot himself he
didn't mean to it was you know who helped her mom break the new stadium and Gavin that
their dad shot himself she says that conversation was especially hard the boys immediately said
you don't you don't know my dad why would you say that you don't know that's something no I
don't know you went but your mom your headache she needs she needed my help and playing
24

this because really hard scary thing happened and she told me about what happened and Aidan
just was like you're crazy lady there's no way that we're going to talk about this this is not what
happened is horrible and awful and I cried the whole night I just it was just awful I just felt so
horrible my husband like you can do that you have to go to the director and teller the you can
do this again suicide is always one of the highest if not the highest cause of death for sharing
place family is at any given time there's actually a special group devoted specifically to suicide
and a lot of the stories you hear in that group are so horrible that you can't help but wonder
why tell the kids what happened at all I just say they died and leave it at that it according to jill
and her colleagues we need to tell children so they won't find out later in life and wonder what
else they live be armed they also don't want to have to cloak it in a way that suggests it's
unspeakable change for get enough of that idea at school this is easy again his father also shot
himself with some people ask well they say this makes me feel very sad tears save them when
somebody kills themselves that means they go to the wrong place I don't believe that but it just
makes me feel very sad when I say that is he said I'm going to a happy place save Goto sat that
either even if he'd even if you don't believe it you know it's nonsense it's book and hurt that
someone would say that Yeah it does because my H it freaks embody judging comes that
judging my capa it's not a bad thing a lot of people do that but you know just kind of feels and
then we urge like on the inside me Sweeney feel like and then scream night he something like
that one of the things you wish that people would say probably earned it is so james then them
that has happened and them I mean we can help you wish them feeling better and damn
understanding it that's trouble is something I want somebody to set once the child knows have
a loved one died there are encouraged to say it out loud is kind of sorcery to it naming the
dragons you can defeat it I sat in on the suicide group which is different than other groups that
kids tend to come to meetings for a longer period of time partly because they didn't get to say
goodbye the kids in a circle at the beginning of the meeting and hand around talking stick one
by one they say their name and who died and how they died my name is anne and the pricing
need God bless you my dad and he or she dad bad she deems wounds and sell off my face again
and team and he wanted to her my name is relevancy me my dad died he tanked by a suicide
and I kept seeing him because I hadn't seen him for a couple of months Schwarz pass there's
also a different question they respond to each time they meet what I miss most about the
person has anything you don't miss tonight's question is what he regrets my csin man a person
could die age is my dad's he died by issuing a cellphone in hand and Nerf I have full glory
current Swedish caring man he can take a long time for them to get to this point where they
can say the words suicide is sharing place never cracked any kids forces them to say anything
they don't want to but they notice when a child is finally able to say it on the other hand a his
brother gavin the 6 year-old talk about his dad's suicide incessantly he also draws guns during
playtime many scope them out play-doh this is Joe McFarlane again you tell everybody at
school my dad shot his brains and freaks everybody out and so many get in trouble.
KFXO (FOX)
Mar 5 • 8:29 AM

B_MAR_OREG_15

four people in reno, nevada are dead in what police say was a murder-suicide. officers were
called to the house to do a welfare check yesterday morning after family and friends hadn't
25

heard from the married couple and their two kids for several days. when police arrived, they
located four people dead in the home. officials say the weapon and cause of death are
unknown. so far, we don't know much about the victims other than two of them are teenagers.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 5 • 3:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_16

suicide was the leading cause of death for organ use and 2018 according to new data from the
U.S. centers for disease control and Prevention organ now ranks the 11th highest in the nation
for Use suicide rates before these new numbers the leading causes of death for Oregonians 24
and younger were unintentional injuries like car accidents and drug overdoses governor Kate
Brown included more than 6 million $ for suicide Prevention and her biennium budget this is
the first time this work has been funded by the state.
KXLY (ABC)
Mar 6 • 5:10 PM

B_MAR_WASH_16

share an important story. you may have seen ethan here at this booth for his nonprofit called
'only seven seconds.'his message is simple--take just a few seconds to pick up your phone and
check in with someone you know. the pateros high school senior says a few years ago he was
really sick with pneumonia and had to miss playing in the regional tournament. he was in bed
for weeks--and not one friend or teammate checked in to see how he was doing. that was
tough for him--but it inspired this message focused on suicide prevention and mental health
awareness... ("2:02:12"it's realy that easy to just say hey, how are you doing to check in on
somebody instead of using your phone to check out and just escape from the world," ethan
wall/founded nonprofit ") this really came full circle because ethan's mom went into labor while
she was in town for state b--17 years ago. we actually did a story on it and got to see ethan
hours after he was born. catch our extended story--all new at six.. and maybe take seven
seconds right now--to text someone you haven't while. to learn more about this nonprofit-head to kxly dot com
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 5 • 12:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_17

suicide is the leading cause of death for organ youth in 28 team according to new data from the
U.S. centers for disease control and Prevention now power reports in 2018 129 Oregonians
aged 24 or younger died by suicide with this new data oregon is now ranked as the 11th highest
in the nation for you the suicide rates previously the leading causes of death for young
Oregonians were unintentional injuries and drug overdoses Oregon governor Kate Brown
included more than 6 million dollars for suicide Prevention in her biennial budget the Oregon
health authority says this is the first time this work has been funded by the state Dr. Dana hard
enough money is Oregon health Authority's chief medical officer we continue to prioritize our
where across the organ to support young people in school at home and in our communities that
money is being used for measures including funding Oregon's suicide Prevention lifeline
26

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 5 • 3:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_18

suicide is the leading cause of death for organ youth in 28 team according to new data from the
U.S. centers for disease control and Prevention now power reports in 2018 129 Oregonians
aged 24 or younger died by suicide with this new data oregon is now ranked as the 11th highest
in the nation for you the suicide rates previously the leading causes of death for young
Oregonians were unintentional injuries and drug overdoses Oregon governor Kate Brown
included more than 6 million dollars for suicide Prevention in her biennial budget the Oregon
health authority says this is the first time this work has been funded by the state Dr. Dana hard
enough money is Oregon health Authority's chief medical officer we continue to prioritize our
where across the organ to support young people in school at home and in our communities that
money is being used for measures including funding Oregon's suicide Prevention lifeline era.
KAPP (ABC)
Mar 5 • 5:15 PM

B_MAR_WASH_17

a selah police officer has been accused of domestic violence, assault and sexual misconduct
spanning several years. the accusations against sergeant jerald smith sparked a months-long
investigation by washington state patrol. kapp-kvew obtained investigative documents that
detail the claims. w-s-p's investigation started with an alleged assault in 2017.......while smith
was on a break from work, but still on duty and carrying his department-issued handgun. while
on duty, smith was confronted by a woman he knew...and reportedly pulled a gun on her, then
turned the gun on himself and threatened to commit suicide. the woman said this happened
several times, including him tracking her car and physically threatening her. during the
investigation, state troopers learned about another incident...where smith confronted a woman
who also worked at the police department. he reportedly threatened to kill her in front of other
employees. another former employee told investigators left because of smith's inappropriate
behavior. smith previously worked as a student resource officer at selah high school.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 5 • 11:00 AM

B_MAR_OREG_19

suicide is the leading cause of death of Oregon Youth in 28 team according to new data from
the U.S. centers for disease control and Prevention in 2018 129 Oregonians aged 24 or younger
dying by suicide with this new data oregon is now ranked 11th highest nation for you the
suicide rates before these new numbers the leading cause of death for young Oregonians were
unintentional injuries like car accidents and drug overdoses your health authorities as governor
Kate Brown included more than 6 million $ for suicide Prevention.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 5 • 4:30 PM

B_MAR_OREG_20

27

their new statistics out from the cdc that show suicide was the leading cause of death among
oregonians between the ages of 10 2 24 in 2018 and that is up from the second leading cause of
death in 2017 oregon is now ranked 11th highest the nation for youth suicide death rate is up 6
places from the year before washington is ranked 16th. governor kate brown including more
than $6 million for suicide prevention inner budget for the 2019. >> 2021 biennium marking the
first time this work has been funded by the state. help is available for anyone who is struggling.
the national suicide prevention lifeline is open 24 7. you can call the number on your screen
right there it's 1 800 2, 7, 3, 8, 2, 5, 5 and if you miss that number in calls here the station you
can look on our website or you can search on the internet.
KOBI
Mar 5 • 5:21 PM

B_MAR_OREG_21

suicide was the leading cause of death among oregon youth ages 10 to 24 in 20-18. that's
according to data released this week by the c-d-c. oregon is now ranked 11th highest in the
nation for youth suicide death rates. in response, governor kate brown included more than 6million dollars for suicide prevention... in her budget for the 20-19 to 20-21 biennium... marking
the first time this work has been funded by the state. if you or someone you know is struggling
with thoughts of suicide... know that you are not alone. there is help. you can call the national
suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be
connected to a crisis counselor.
KVAL (CBS)
Mar 5 • 6:50 AM

B_MAR_OREG_22

turning to health news, oregon is 11th in the country for youth suicides. the state health
department released new numbers yesterday showing suicide is now the leading cause of
death for kids ages 10 to 24. catherine spoke with health experts. >> just to say the leading
cause of death between 10 and 24-year-olds is suicide. it sounds shocking. >> it is shocking. it's
shocking that when you look at the numbers, were even five or six years ago it was 90 and now
we are at 129. what is going on? there's so much out there now, so much support. we've got
youth line, lights for life, trainings and things like that, yet we still have kids who feel alone and
feel in that moment that that is the only solution for them. >> dr. robert henderson is the chief
executive of behavioral health. she says despite efforts to support youth, they are still facing
societal and school pressures that need to be addressed early on. >> we have kids identifying
with mental illness, kids with gender dysphoria, all those types of factors that we are not able
to get kids access to care where they present. >> the pressure is on now that suicide has been
surpassed unintentional deaths like overdoses and car crashes. dr. henderson says not one
reason its number 1 is that more people are reporting it, which is an important step, but there
is more. >> connection is the most important thing we can do it with someone struggling or
even if they are just feeling alone, there is always someone there to listen.

28

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 7 • 4:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_23

we did it all nannies and wait got tagged I know you didn't see him money found him and he
asserted he was already dead a your dad all right I can touch okay she knew use our Lake began
because she sobbed blood and things I noticed him Yeah and he was like terrific guy so nice so
generous you always help anyone you're a terrific guy but what what what did you learn here
to help you the most to understand how he died sometimes that task telling the kids their
parent committed suicide foster Joe McFarlane because the surviving parent or Guardian might
be so inside their own grief that they can't bring themselves to do it to explain suicide simply
issue does other kinds of death there's a sickness in your brain called depression she says and
can make you decide to make your own body stop working she says it's required that the kids
know how their brother or sister or mother died before starting the group what had one family
say he diet M because the SAIC own family said he died in a car accident one family said he
accidentally shot himself he didn't mean to it was you know who helped her mom break the
new stadium and Gaven that they're bad shot himself she says that conversation was especially
hard the boys immediately said you don't you don't know my dad why do you say that you
don't know that's something no I don't know you went but you're wrong here today because
she needs she needed my help and telling this is a really hard scary thing happened and she
told me about what happened and Aidan just was like you're crazy lady there's no way we're
going to talk about this this is not what happened is horrible and awful and I cried the whole
night I just it was just awful I just felt so horrible and my husband was like you can do that you
have to vote the director and teller the you can do this again suicide is always one of the
highest if not the highest cause of death for sharing place family is at any given time there's
actually a special group devoted specifically to suicide can a lot of the stories you hear in that
group are so horrible that you can't help but wonder why tell the kids what happened at all why
not just say they died and leave it at Yeah it according to jill and colleagues we need to tell
children so they won't find out later in life and wonder what else have they lied be they also
don't want to have to cloak it in a way that suggests it's unspeakable and change for get enough
of that idea at school this is easy again whose father also shot himself with some people ask
why are they saying this makes me feel very sad charity save them when somebody kills
themselves that means they go to kobe's the wrong place I don't believe that but it just makes
me feel very sad when they see that incident going to happen proceed go is Had that either
even if you do even if you don't believe it you know it's nonsense it's the kind of hurt that
someone would say that Yeah it does scare is down like it's like somebody judging that judging
a conference it's not a bad thing for a lot of people do that just kind of feels off and then we
urge like on the inside it makes me feel like I'm going to scream night something like that one of
the things you wish that people would say probably it's okay aides said them that has happened
and done I mean we can help you with them is feeling better and damn understanding it that's
trouble something and somebody said it it's a once the child knows have their loved one died
their courage to say it out loud is kind of sorcery to it naming the dragons you can defeat it I sat
in on the suicide group which is different than other groups that kids tend to come to meetings
for a longer period of time partly because they didn't get to say goodbye the kids in a circle at
the beginning of the meeting and hand around talking stick one by one they say their name and
29

who died and how they died my name is and that person need dad was my bad and he was ke a
dad bad shape full moons selloff the Fed again and team at all and he wanted to her my name is
clinton see my dad die he tanked by a suicide and I regret that seeing him because I hadn't seen
him for a couple of months Schwarz path there's also a different question they respond to each
time they meet what I miss most about the person his anything you don't miss tonight's
question is what he regrets my name is season and the person who died is my dad's he died
they shoot those free hand unique for him things you read the granite state is caring man can
take a long time for them to get to this point where they can say the words suicide is sharing
place never correct any of the kids are forces them to say anything they don't want to but they
notice when a child is finally able to say it on the other hand in his brother gavin the 6 year-old
talks about his dad's suicide incessantly he also draws guns during playtime many scope them
out play-doh this is John McFarlane again you tell everybody at school may God shine his brains
and freaked everybody out and so many get in trouble at school which then he was like I guess I
can't ever talk about my dad but this is how can earn stock and process think it is easy for them
to talk about it scares other people off is it okay for kids to other kids in class his second name
Yeah I mean I know it's a very nasty I don't know I don't know either if I were a parent I'm not
sure what my kid hearing that kind of thing it's cool Meanwhile Joe doesn't have an answer she
does think kids being allowed to express themselves is much healthier than sending them a
message that it's wrong to say this kind of stuff out loud and that's got to be a step in the right
direction a very fun memories of this is actually tried to come through the side door because
that that that was North that I always came in through I have no legal like using adult and
trades finally serum Hamas hasn't been to the share In place for a full 6 years she's 21 now
when she was 11 her older brother hang himself even though he was supposed to be
babysitting her parents told her to keep an eye on him because of his past suicide attempts
obviously what happened wasn't her fault but she blamed herself which is something I heard
other kids here talk about to it's easy for an adult to say don't be silly it's not your fault but it's a
whole other thing to talk with the kid the sharing places says I know exactly what you're talking
about it was it was kind of nice scene and the older kids who was S E a L loved ones had been
gone for for a few years how they were able to good school normally and it's just live their
normal lives because I just don't want to go to school I didn't want to be with kids he just didn't
know it was just it was too hard it's the kids themselves decide when they're ready to stop
coming to sharing place but on average they stay about two years there ready to leave they
have announced their intention to times and group before their final goodbyes interview that
would like to say something to him which I'm sure Cheryl if you well the good by a ceremonial
and on the last night I was there at the end of the meeting they said goodbye to kidney robby
he sat in a circle with the other kids and volunteers and anybody who wanted to could pick up
the talking stick and say a few words his friend Jessica was last kid to do so own out that plane
missed here because I want my best friend in this group and its out the Sino and other major
fight that we had in the volcano room it was not my fault you do not hold does this really fun
then I'm gonna miss seeing and saying Allah you and Robbie last meeting there was a kid who
just showed up his first meeting the blond bangs hanging over his size and except for his name
didn't say anything the whole time whatever new person joins the veteran kids have a chance
to gauge their own progress to remember what they were like when they for showed up and
think about how bad it used to be and now it isn't as and ultimately like robbie the make way
30

for someone on a long waiting list a list of which new names are added all the time the say I
think it's time to go and then I'll say it again.
AM 860
Mar 8 • 6:51 PM

B_MAR_WASH_ 18

think was a perfect fall down no you're wrong I told you I was doing the company but you know
the way you can read all about money power and saw the to Cook said forming Yeah that's why
I stand was kind of so slightly getting himself okay I sent a man to a hotel final is gone that
Sanchez says right now we have a motive way that does testimony we've got to convince me to
kill myself I don't think it will strengthen it's only the suicide rate in the County jail is very low
and good food good only you love you don't want to see me and my dog my side attacking gone
crazy angela I mean what little touch of Irish parent para try and just time my keys so marinade
so they have busted everywhere when you go I was injured the dance floor was the best guy to
me Oh Wow and carried games know gossip he would know better than to believe his story
shape there's skis here somewhere if they've had been injured and when you're done I come
down to a hospital room Should make the well what you want her him keys well I I I was wrong
and I heard my lip and enemy to do that again next week.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 8 • 7:05 AM

B_MAR_OREG_24

dozens gather at wilson's high school for its first out of the darkness walk. the goal is to draw
attention to suicide prevention and to different mental health resources out there. months
were spent planning yesterday's walk. >> i personally went to one of these walks last year after
my coach committed suicide and it was very healing and helpful and i wanted to bring it over
here so that everyone can kind of have that same experience if they've ever had to lose
somebody. >> new cdc data shows in 2018 suicide became the leading cause of death among
young oregonians between 10 and 24. oregon's ranking jumped from 17th to 11th in the
country in terms of youth suicide rates. if you or someone you know needs help, please call the
national suicide prevention lifeline. 1 (800) 273-8255
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 8 • 5:39 PM

B_MAR_OREG_25

hundreds of people marched saturday to shine a lied on suicide awareness. this was one of
hundreds of events happening nationwide this year, all to fight for suicide prevention. roughly
800,000 people take their own lives around the globe, with suicide rates high for teens and
young adults. the events like these are crucial to opening up dialogue about mental health. >>
all about continuing to raise awareness and reducing the stigma. the more people see people in
their community, it reduces that separation and reduces the people that struggle with this are
somehow different or other. but it's very common. bonnie: and all the money raised is going to
the american foundation for suicide prevention. last year, these walks, these events raised
more than $21 million.
31

KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 8 • 12:10 AM

B_MAR_OREG_26

and they might have been walking to prevent suicide, but there was more talking than anything
else. it was the first annual out of the darkness walk in wilson high school. it was about mental
health and suicide prevention. the suicide prevention is very close to her heart after losing her
cheer coach and friend. >> it is important to tawning about it. it is something that can be
prevented. a lot of the people feel like they are alone. i want to make sure they know they love
and matter and see them and care for them. the state health department released new
numbers this week, that put oregon 11th in the country for suicides. >> and it is always a good
idea to write down these number and give them to the kids so they can program them. 867
help 968- 8491. offering peer to peer counseling and they can text ten teen to teen.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 8 • 7:33 AM

B_MAR_OREG_27

hundreds of people marched Saturday to end the stigma of suicide prevention. nearly 800,000
people take their lives every year around the world, so events like these are crucial about
opening up about mental health. >> the more people see people in their community, it reduces,
i guess, that separation and reduces that people struggle with this are now different or other.
it's very common. >> all the money raised is going to the American foundation for suicide
prevention. last year, these walks raised more than $21 million.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 7 • 10:40 PM

B_MAR_OREG_28

today ups of people shaped a light on suicide awareness. an out-darkness walk was held at
wilson high school. this event is 100s nationwide fighting for few side prevention. 800,000
people take their lives around the world every year. so event like these are crucial onto opening
up dialogue about mental health. >> it's all about continue to be raids awareness, and
reductioning the stick mat the more people see people in there community it reduces i guess
that separation and the people that struggle with this are somehow different or other. it's it's
very common. >> all the money raised today is going straight to the american foundation for
suicide prevention last year these walks raised more than $21 million. could washington state
soon allow sports betting? where that measure is in the legislature and could we see it take
effect before the end of the year? and separate varieties of cactus are disappearing from the
arizona desert. why they are being taken and what's being done to stop it?
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 8 • 12:05 AM

B_MAR_OREG_29

walking to raise awareness, dozens of students gathered at Wilson high school for the school's
first annual out of the darkness walk. the goal is to draw attention to suicide prevention and the
different mental health resources available. junior me is that dori has been planning this walk
32

for months. >> i personally went to one of these walks last year, after my coach committed
suicide and it was very healing and hope and i wanted to bring it over here so that everyone
could have that same experience if they have ever had to lose somebody. >> according to the
cdc, suicide is the 10th leading cause of death and new cdc data shows in 2018, suicide was the
leading cause of death among people in Oregon between the ages of 10-24. if you or someone
that you know needs some help, call the national suicide prevention lifeline is right there on
your screen, one 800 273 8255.
Fox 12 Plus
Mar 8 • 8:31 AM

B_MAR_OREG_30

hundreds of people marched Saturday to shine a light on suicide awareness. an "out of the
darkness" walk was held at Wilson high school in southwest Portland.... the event is one of
hundreds happening nationwide this year -- to fight for suicide prevention. roughly 800thousand people take their own lives every year around the world -- with suicide rates
especially high for teens and young adults. so events like these are crucial to opening up
dialogue about mental health. (("it's all about continuing to raise awareness, and reducing the
stigma. so the more people see people in their community, it reduces that separation, it
reduces that people struggling are somehow other. it's very common.")) all the money raised is
going to the American foundation for suicide prevention. last year, these walks raised more
than 21-million dollars.
KMTR (NBC)
Mar 9 • 6:40 PM

B_MAR_OREG_31

the cdc shows that suicide was the leading cause of death for oregon youth into thousand two.
>> the state has increased funding for suicide prevention and passed a law requiring school
districts to implement a suicide prevention plan by next school year. alex hasenstab checked in
with 3 the local school district after their first year with a new suicide prevention program. >>
reporter: a suicide prevention program in the bethel school district puts students in a role to
support their peers. 3 mariah is a senior at willamette high and a source of strength. leader, and
international evidence-based suicide prevention program. as a leader she is somewhat students
can come to for help. >> we talked to her friends. 3 they are the first people we go to. >>
reporter: they connect students to resources and trusted adults. >> i have been able to connect
multiple people with the things or people they need to talk to. >> reporter: the program has
been in place for about one year. the anniversary comes at the same time newly released data
from the cdc shows suicide was the leading cause of death for organs youth ages 10 to 24 in
2018. is up from the second leading cause in 2017. 3 >> students are struggling. let's not catch
them when they 3 are in crisis. let's get the way upstream and supporting them. >> reporter: is
director of the bethel health center and says the program poses an important question. >> how
do you handle hard times and how do you flip that narrative to learn how to work through that.
>> reporter: senate bill 52 was passed requiring school 3 districts to implement suicide
prevention plans for the upcoming school year. estate also included $6 million in funding for
suicide prevention. >> we know these programs are going to help her students but we need to
33

fund them. >> reporter: he says the program has inspired her to 3 continue with youth
intervention after graduation. >> i want to help younger generation start early with 3 loving
themselves. >> reporter: schools and their students are taking on an important role.
KTVZ (NBC)
Mar 9 • 6:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_32

teens who run away from home face a similar or even greater risk of mental health problems
than those who are homeless. researchers survey nearly 70-thousand high school students.
their data showed 20-percent of runaways, eleven-percent of homeless youth, and 33-percent
of those who experienced both had attempted suicide in the prior year. that's compared to just
two-percent of teens with stable housing. ### if you or someone you know has thoughts about
suicide, there is help. you can find several resources at k-t-v-z dot com.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 9 • 7:45 PM

B_MAR_OREG_33

the us attorney says britain's prince andrew is not cooperating with prosecutors and the jeffrey
epstein case. epstein was charged with set sex-trafficking but he committed suicide in jail last
year before his case went to trial. investigators want to ask prince andrew about his ties to
epstein, as you look into alleged co-conspirators in november, the duke of york said he was
willing to help law enforcement if required. but today, prosecutors said that's not happening.
>> contrary to prince andrew's very public. offer to cooperate with our investigation prince
andrew has now completely shut the door on voluntary cooperation and our office is
considering its options. >> prince andrew has since stepped back from public duties with
permission of his mother queen elizabeth the second
KAPP (ABC)
Mar 9 • 5:05 PM

B_MAR_WASH_19

the cause of death for the man hit and killed by a semi-truck in kennewick on sunday has been
determined.> the coroner's office has ruled the death a office has ruled > the coroner's office
has ruled the death a suicide. shortly before noon sunday, 46-year-old jeremie mills was
walking in the southbound lanes of u-s- 395 near hildebrand. a semi-truck was going the same
way. mills walked in front of the truck -- killing him. by law, the coroner has sent samples out
for the driver will not be charged.
KXLY (ABC)
Mar 9 • 6:15 PM

B_MAR_WASH_20

more than eight-thousand dollars has been raised for four north idaho idaho families affected
by suicide... each year laclede's devin fleck hosts her "cakes for a cause" auction - baking cakes
herself and auctioning them off in the community to raise funds for those families...the auction
raised more than 85-hundred dollars...which is more than 21-hundred dollars to each grieving
34

family... fleck tells us that the money is to cover funeral costs, counseling, and ny needs for the
family as they grieve... grieve...family as they ny needs for the counseling, and costs,
counseling, and ny needs for the family as they grieve.
KMTR (NBC)
Mar 9 • 5:16 PM

B_MAR_OREG_34

new release from the cdc shows that suicide was a leading cause of death for or gone use in
2018. that runs from the second leading cause of death in 2017. >> estate bill passed last
session requiring oregon districts to prevent suicide by next school year. the district has already
implemented a new program. that the evidence-based suicide program that unifies schools
across the country. the direct their spoke about it 3 in preventing suicide. >> it has definitely
become part of our role. we work all day with students. we care deeply about them. our
educators are passionate about these kids. this is just another way for us 3 to care for them. >>
it puts students in a leadership role. they can go to their peers for resources and help.
KVAL (CBS)
Mar 9 • 5:12 PM

B_MAR_OREG_35

stricken your health news, newly released data from the cdc shows that suicide was the leading
cause of death for Oregon youth rising from the second leading cause. alex is talking to us
about how the state is responding to this. >> a state bill was passed last session and it requires
Oregon school districts, with an intervention plan by the next school year. the bethel school
district has already implemented a new program called sources of strength. it is a prevention
program used by schools across the country. we spoke with the director about the role schools
play with suicide prevention. >> i think it has definitely become part of our role. we work all day
with students. we care deeply about them. our educators are passionate about these kids and
this is just another way for us to care about them. >> a great thing about this program is it puts
students in a leadership role so that students can go to to peers for resources and help. back
here at 6:00, we will tell you more about the program and how it has already made a
difference. >> looking forward to it, thanks, alex
KOBI
Mar 9 • 11:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_36

britain's prince andrew is not cooperating with prosecutors in the jeffrey epstein case. that's
the latest update from the u-s attorney's office. epstein was charged with sex trafficking -- but
he committed suicide in jail last year before his case went to trial. now authorities are looking
into alleged co- conspirators. investigators want to ask prince andrew about his ties to epstein.
in november, the duke of york said he was willing to help law enforcement if required.
however, during an unrelated news conference on monday, prosecutors said that's not
happening.

35

KVAL (CBS)
Mar 10 • 6:50 AM

B_MAR_OREG_37

in health news, new numbers shows suicide was the leading cause of death in 2018. that's the
second leading cause in 2017. they passed a law for a suicide prevention plap next year. >> they
put students in a roll to support their peers. a senior and source of strength leader. it's a suicide
prevention program. as a leader, she's someone students can come to as help. they then
connect students to resources and trusted adults. gates raised said the program has made an
impact. the program has been in place in the district for a year. the on versely comes at the
same time newly released data shows suicide was the death for those ages 10-24 in 2018. that's
up from 2018. >> hour students are struggling. >> brook says the new program poses an
important question. >> now do you handle hard times and how do you flip that narrative? >>
they're adding plans for the upcoming school year. the state also included $6 million for suicide
prevention.
KMTR (NBC)
Mar 10 • 6:50 AM

B_MAR_OREG_38

a boy was thrown off a balcony at an apartment building in st. paul minnesota. st. paul police
arrived on the scene responding to a call about an attempted suicide but only to find that was
not the case. the victim's mother dragged her sent to the balcony and threw him off. he was
hospitalized after the incident and is expected to recover. police found out what happened
after interviews. >> they discovered the mother had gotten into the child's bedroom and
dragged him out of his bunk bed and threw him off of the balcony. we don't know why and
what could have made someone do this. >> the boy is being treated for sever injuries.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 10 • 4:57 PM

B_MAR_OREG_39

westview high school hosting mental health week a. student developed it for her senior project.
genevieve reaume shows how her voice is changing other people's lives. with just over 2400
students, westview high school is one of the biggest schools in the state. >> oh, my gosh, can
you -- >> but there's one young woman who certainly does not get lost in the crowd. >> this is a
powerful girl. >> she is a senior who spearheaded the idea of mental wellness week. it's never
been dunl here before. she struggled with depression, anxiety, she nearly took her life in
seventh grade. but last year when she finally broke her silence and found someone here to
listen, it saved her. >> i i have to live with this the rest of my life. >> she made a commitment to
talking about t. she shared her story with thousands of peers. >> to know that i'm making a
difference in another student's life that's why i do it. >> earlier this year with the staff at her
own school. >> i have had teachers be, like, i look at my students differently because of your
story. >> with help from the club at westview she crafted the week there are resource tables
and daily challenges. staff will even share their own mental health battles. >> it's okay to tell
somebody that i just don't feel good. >> it's all so kids know the power of their voices. >>

36

wouldn't be even close to where we are if you weren't telling your story and challenging us
daily to make sure we're doing the right work.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 10 • 2:57 PM

B_MAR_OREG_40

the folks said Providence effectively should either give up its religious beliefs and adopt medical
aid in dying doctor-assisted suicide what he's said that my hand and past just leave it won't
happen they made a cough I know and many more could push one thing I'm not spare called
they want what do you want but GM wheat and they did everything the way we won in the
dummy he did not play there Dianna and delete make him and doing everything it could to
keep him clean it come with a ball and cheese phone and 10 path I don't understand why They
are hungry and killed kate well because they don't have a religious faith I could call him faithless
he'd evens maybe you consider that unchristian made the call them safely Stevens but that's
what they're doing this saying we want a bully every religious-based institutions including some
of the best hospitals in the region into giving up their religious faith and their objection to
doctor-assisted suicide and that's wrong and then this one alone paul banks
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Mar 10 • 7:14 PM

B_MAR_WASH_21

now to pivotal testimony in the trial against child protective services. >> the state worker who
oversaw the josh powell case, and the care of his children, braden and charlie, before they were
killed, took the stand. kevin mccarty was in court as the woman spoke publicly about their
deaths for the first time. >> that woman was assigned by the state to make sure those boys
were safe, when they visited their father. by the time she got that case, the name josh powell
was known across the nation. she told a jury here today at pierce county superior court, she'd
never heard of him. >> i had never heard his name. >> reporter: elizabeth griffin hall was a
contacted case worker in late 2011, when she was assigned to the case of josh powell. she says
at the time, she knew little about him, and hadn't heard powell was the focus of national media
attention, and police investigations in two states centering on the disappearance of his wife,
susan cox powell who died in 2009. >> i was told it was a high profile case. >> and that
database, did that include that he was a person of interest, in the disappearance of his wife
susan powell? >> yes, it did. >> reporter: by 2011, chuck and judy cox had been appointed
guardians of their grandchildren. griffin hall testified as she supervised early visits, she saw no
signs powell might hurt his sons. >> the boys were joyful, and they're very atenttive to what he
had to say. >> reporter: then after he had to undergo a lie detector test, he killed himself and
his two sons. powell locked her out of the house. bludgeoned the boys are a hatchet, before
pouring gas on them, and inside the home, sparking a fiery explosion. the cox's are now suing
dshs, saying the state should have known their grandchildren were in danger.

37

KVAL (CBS)
Mar 10 • 9:32 AM

B_MAR_OREG_41

suicide was the leading cause of death for oregon youth in 2018 up from the second leading
cause in 2017. the state has increased funding for suicide prevention and passed a law requiring
students, schools to lament a new prevention program. we checked in with a local school
district after their first year with a new suicide prevention program. >> reporter: a suicide
prevention program in the bethel school district puts students in a role to support their peers.
this is an international evidence-based suicide prevention program. as a leader, she is someone
student players can come to for help. >> we go to our friends because we can trust them. >>
reporter: cheerleaders connect students to resources. >> i have been able to help connect
multiple people with the things or people they need to talk to. >> reporter: the program has
been in the place for around one year. cdc results show suicide was the leading cause of death.
>> our students are struggling. let's not just catch them when they are in crisis, is make sure we
are getting way upstream and supporting them. >> reporter: she is director of the health center
and says the new program poses an important program. >> how do you handle hard times and
how do you flip the narrative so that you learn how to work through that? >> reporter: last year
senate bill 52 was passed requiring school districts to implement suicide prevention plans for
the upcoming school year. the state also included $6 million in funding for suicide prevention.
>> we know these programs are going to help our students but we have to be able to fund
them. >> reporter: she says the program has inspired her to continue even after graduation. >>
i want to help younger generations start early with loving themselves truck with youth in crisis,
schools and their students are taking on an important role. >> sources of strength is currently
offered to high school and middle school student players in the bethel school district. the
district is looking to include it within their elementary schools, as well.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 19• 10:10 PM

B_MAR_OREG_42

some of the things that are explored With both the season hotel is also I guess you say co-stars
a supporting character in the bookend into in history itself because the sea floor Hotel Cecil
Hotel as very dark history palace located in an area that called art district the skid row area that
of skid row one side our history on the other sides in Los angeles is also notorious for numerous
suicide and murders Wells lodging for a lot of famous serial killers Richard merits of course
known as the night stalker was living at the Cecil Hotel 1985 on the 14th floor he was charged
14 $ a night in a building full of transience remained unnoticed because basically you know he
would take his clothes his bloody clothes had thrown the dumpster a he was stocking Jolie
Stockton killed 13 victims and so dumping the bloody clothes in the dumpster the in the
evening turns through the back entrance nobody do the other guy jacket underway here he was
a journalist covering crime in Los Angeles for an Austrian magazine 1991 check under way it
was and us austria serial killer who was convicted of murdering prostitutes in several countries
his release from prison the 19 nineties example rehabilitation he started telling again though
also into the Cecil Hotel during his second killing spree eventually Committed Suicide he was
diagnosed with our assistant personality disorder 1994 but the thing about knee in the case of
38

underwear here is that you know on Twitter or didn't ride alongs the police and it was like right
there they had a known killer and known suspects sitting with them and they did absolutely
nothing which of course Jake Anderson with his he brings up the question jake about no I the
police that sick the the evac corrupt they don't understand you know what's going on because
apparently you know this case is in a mysterious and conspiracy theories all kinds of other there
is flying high about this case but it's because of the fact that it seems as though the police to do
their job again seen look the other way when you know it's it's apparent obvious she was
murdered.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 10 • 10:05 PM

B_MAR_WASH_22

authorities in gilroy california have completed their investigation of the police response to last
year's deadly mass shooting ABC is Alex Stone has that story he was last July when 19 year-old
sanctuary League-N opened fire on the crowd the gilroy garlic festival using an A.K. 47 he killed
3 3 victims including a 6 year-old child 17 more were injured 3 police officers when rushing in
less than a minute shooting weekend there was a gun battle he was shot multiple times
League-N then put his own gun to his mouth and killed himself now 3 officers have been legally
cleared of any wrong doing for opening fire.
OPB
Mar 11 • 6:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_43

we will turn to another story from new york. harvey weinstein was sentenced to 23 years for
rape and sexual assault. and 2017, -- a journalist describes the scene in the courtroom. she says
he was cuffed to his wheelchair and rolled away. the women who testified solved afterwards.
six women testified in the trial. many more have come forward in the last three years to detail
harvey's actions. the guardian produced this montage. one of them is a former assistant to
harvey weinstein. she had to sign an nda for 20 years and was only able to tell her story
recently. >> at the time, we were told to treat this time of our lives is a black hole. we were not
allowed to speak to anybody. we had to provide a list of people within our friends and family
that we had spoken to about working for harvey weinstein. we were cut off from professional
assistance of any kind. any doctor or lawyer or therapist that we wanted to see about the
incident would have to sign an undertaking with harvey weinstein's lawyers before i could
speak to them. it was a suffocating 20 years. two years after signing the nda, i attempted twice
to commit suicide. anchor: harvey weinstein has disputed the allegations. he addressed the
court for the first time wednesday, saying he had remorse, but described himself and other
men as totally confused by the situation. here is his lawyer speaking after the sentencing. >>
harvey is confused. he feels sad. he believed he had relationships with women that were
different than the way they are now characterizing them. if you look at their conversations, it
would be realistic to believe that. you look at the way jessica spoke about him on recorded
conversations, it would be realistic to believe that. that sentence that was handed down by the
court was obscene. that number was -- anchor: sorry about that. let's bring in someone live in
new york. tell us about the reactions from people attending the sentencing today. reporter: the
39

manhattan district attorney said this sends a message to sexual predators to take notes. what
we heard from the victims, you heard them speaking, giving victim impact statements, they
spoke about how this has impacted their entire lives, scar them for lives. one of them said she
was happy that this convection means no other woman will fall victim to harvey weinstein, but
angry he has not shown remorse. he is still denying the effect he has had on these women. a big
moment for social justice campaigners, silage breakers, other women who are accused harvey
weinstein. they have said his legacy is forever going to be as a convicted rapist and this will help
going forward with other victims looking for justice. anchor: for those campaigners, it is a
symbolic moment because the justice system has not always been seen to be on the side of
women making these allegations, but today it was. reporter: that is exactly right. statistically,
rapists are not -- they usually get off on these types of cases. it is hard to try cases when it is he
said she said. from the beginning, experts said this could be a longshot case. they did not have
much forensic evidence, it was whether the jury understood that these women did not have to
act like the notion of how a perfect victim is. these women continued having contacts with
harvey weinstein. the defensive play do that. what the drivers said is they understood attacks
can happen in consensual relationships and look at the evidence of the attacks. as far as the
sentence, harvey's victims have been used to disappointment. even though he was convicted,
they were concerned the judge could give him a slap on the wrist. instead, the judge gave him
23 years, saying while this was his first conviction, it was not his first offense.
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 10 • 11:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_44

good evening, thank you for joining us. the suicide rate for organs youth is on the rise, currently
the 11th highest in the nation. a group of medford mothers are joining together to bring off the
stigma, in part one of a two-part series on teen suicides, the top story at 11:00. >> i would
never want what i went through happen to another family.>> reporter: andrea has dealt with
teen mental health close to home, the family has had to fight a lot of stigma and social shame
surrounding her daughter's mental health.>> what was so important, i have a daughter that
struggles with neurological disorders and mental illness. through the years, we just fought a lot
of stigma and shame surrounding that.>> reporter: her daughter was sent to treatment when
she was 15 for two and half years for having suicidal thoughts. susan a hold on the other hand
the says she wants to spread awareness for her daughter, grace. >> i lost my daughter to
suicide four years ago, and i would never want anyone to go through that.>> reporter: they
teamed up together to make champions of change, a group for teens to connect through open
conversation for suicide and depression. >> we have to do something more than just talking to
adults, that is all that is happening, adults are talking to each other about solutions, but nothing
is working, we need to go to the kids instead.>> reporter: champions of change is a
collaboration between the grace and kindness a foundation and the -- the first two meetings,
they were shocked by the response. >> i was surprised, not necessarily that social media is
impacting them or making them feel alone or anxious, because i feel anxious, with social media,
it was the intensity, and the emotion that they were showing behind it that i was like, holy cow,
this is a problem. >> champions of change has a goal to grow the organization nationwide.
tomorrow we hear from local teens who are attending the meetings, they told news 10 not only
40

is teen depression not talked about, but something they say is common. in part, they say it is
due to social media, part two is tomorrow night at 6:00.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Mar 10 • 11:04 PM

B_MAR_WASH_23

now, horrifying discovery, a woman in a child were found dead on and old logging road off of
puget beach road near lacey. they are calling both of these debts suspicious.>> reporter: right
now, investigator say all signs point to a homicide. they do not believe this is a murder suicide.
the bodies were discovered not far from where we are standing, down the road, in a wooded
area. the deputies do not believe the bodies had been there for more than 24 hours.
investigators are busy collecting evidence. the deputy say the woman and a child were
discovered by hikers around 6:30 tuesday evening, 20 yards down an old logging road in the
direction these investigators are walking. investigators say it is too early to give a possible age
of the child. they say they are trying to figure out if they died here or were placed here. >>
there are visible injuries, at least to the adult victim, that we can tell at this point. it would lead
us to believe, this was most likely done not done by homicide. >>> the hikers told investigators,
they did not see any other cars parked nearby that could have belonged to the woman or a
suspect.>> reporter: investigator say they are working to confirm the identities of the bodies
found behind us here. no arrest at this point or suspect information. part of the investigation
will look at any recent missing persons report. we will check in with deputies tomorrow on this
investigation. >>> from one tragic thing to another, to, neighborhood is in disbelief, a woman
was violently killed in her apartment. allegedly at the hands of her own son. this is in south
tacoma. the neighbor said this woman was extremely warm and friendly?>> reporter: they sure
did tell us, everybody told us that, monique. felt the opposite way about her 0-year-old son,
who they saw arrested in a very unusual way, at the scene behind me. this is at the corner of
these apartments here, off of interstate 5. he was partially closed and smeared with blood,
acting as if nothing happened. while tacoma detectives appeased the scene together -- >>
shock, shock. >> reporter: the neighbors told us about the woman who was found murdered in
her own apartment. >> i cannot believe she is gone. >> reporter: tacoma police say that
neighbors heard a loud struggle and called 911 when they saw 30-year-old man, who they all
knew as her son, running away, shirtless. he was covered in blood. >> he had blood on his face.
he was smoking like nothing happened. >> reporter: when they saw police arresting the man in
the apartment square yard -- >> a guy said he just killed his mother. >> reporter: none of the
neighbors were surprised to see him as a suspect. for years, they regarded him as threatening
and unstable. >> i got a bad vibe from him. like there was nothing there. no emotions or
anything. >> reporter: neighbors believe the woman was stabbed and they wish they could've
helped her. >> she was very nice. she always had a smile. student she was always nice. she was
a small, elderly lady. >> reporter: what they want to know now is why. is>> reporter: that was
your mother, why would you kill your mom?>> reporter: the neighbors also told us that this
man, who is a suspect in the murder, and is in jail tonight had a consistent reputation for erratic
behavior around here, including running around this area naked. police would get involved, and
they said for all the world, it appeared to them like the mother was doing everything she could
to protect her son.
41

KEZI (ABC)
Mar 11 • 4:10 PM

B_MAR_OREG_45

in an update - an albany woman who just pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen sex crimes
involving an underage person -- has died of an apparent suicide. linn county deputies say they
found tina ketchamhanging in her cell and unresponsive early this morning. they say there were
no signs of violence and she had not been ill. as we told you... back in february, 40 year old tina
ketcham was charged with 7 sex crimes...but on monday that number was increased to 15
ketcham was facing several charges including rape and sex abuse. a man has been arrested for
breaking into the boys and girls club in coos bay. this happened around 9-20 last night coos bay
police say they arrived to find 41-year-old courtney mitchell trying to leave the building, on the
basement floor, with items in his hands. they say once he saw police he ran back into the
building and tried to exit on the opposite side. police arrested him before he could get away. he
is facing several charges including burglary and theft.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 11 • 6:40 PM

B_MAR_OREG_46

an albany woman facing more than a dozen sex crimes. has died from an apparent suicide.
deputies say they found 40-year old tina ketcham dead in her cell early this morning... and she
couldn't be revived. there were no signs of violence and she hasn't been sick. she pleaded not
guilty to rape, sex abuse and sodomy charges this week, involving an underage person.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Mar 11 • 7:17 PM

B_MAR_WASH_24

now to where murder investigation in the south sound. the body of a woman and a child
discovered near a popular trail. there were found last night. investigators say the deaths are
suspicious but they did not believe it was a murder suicide at this point. news spread quickly
among the quiet community and people want answers. >> there could be other victims. there's
a spreadout area. there is no telling what could happen. >> detectives do not know the child's
age. they also can't say whether the woman and child were killed there or dump down this
road. the medical examiner has not identified the victims yet.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 11 • 11:35 AM

B_MAR_WASH_25

hikers made a grim discovery off an old logging road in Olympia last night details from co-host
kelly johnson after 6 30 last night Thursday Jan shares to generate brady says couple of hikers
found two bodies about 20 yards office side road from huge Beach drive northeast one of the
deceased appears to be an adult female the other is believed to be a child they have not said if
it's a boy or girl not appear on the day a day that they've been there for a long time possibly
within a day or so is what we believe at this point signs point to homicide for both not a
murder-suicide detectives are still working to confirm whether the woman and child died there
42

or were left there did find a knife in the area but say they do not believe that is related to the
case and not said either how the woman and child were killed.
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 11 • 6:03 PM

B_MAR_OREG_47

according to the latest center for disease control and prevention report, suicide is now the
leading cause of death amongst oregon's youths. a local medford teenager told news 10 with
social media and the constant pressure to achieve , talking about depression, anxiety, and
suicide is unheard of. now to medford mothers decided to create a safe place for these
conversations. >> when topics like suicide and stuff like that come around , we had nowhere
else to go other than maybe our friends so maybe groups like this is beneficial. >> that's why
susan hold, the founder of the grace and kindness foundation and founder of the lemonade
project new they had to do something to help. holt lost her daughter grace holt four years ago.
childress daughter struggles with neurological illness and mental illness. >> we were like we
have to do something . more than just talking to adults. that's all that's happening right now.
we need to go to the kids. >> making champions for a change a group for teenagers to connect
through open conversation about suicide and depression, it was their way to give back. south
medford high school students told news 10 that it's exactly what they needed. >> a lot of
people feel that they are alone or going through things but when we had our first meeting,
everyone was talking about similar things or problems they had gone through. everyone agreed
on the same things. >> social media was the topic and everyone agreed this brought them the
most sadness. >> you are always surrounded by a phone. even seeing people post pictures of
them on vacation or they have the perfect body and everything, you look at yourself and you
pick yourself apart. >> having people to relate to and confide in give teenagers a sense of relief.
>> it helps to get stuff off of your chest. it makes people feel better about themselves. when
you've got the environment like this we could see you aren't alone in this. >> any person who
had misconceptions like i don't want to talk about suicide, that's sad. it's not like that at all. i
feel so happy afterward that we are able to bring awareness and have everyone give their
input. >> the champions of change group hopes to be the model for similar groups to sprout
across the country. in the past two meetings, 10 girls attended by only five guys. guys try to
appear manly and don't want to be vulnerable according to what they said. another meeting
will be held in april. for more information go to this story on ktvl.com
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 11 • 6:35 AM

B_MAR_OREG_48

the suicide rate for the oregon youth is on the right are currently, the 11th haste state in the
nation for youth suicide death of a group of medford mothers are joining to gather to reduce
stigma regarding teen suicide. after both experienced trauma close to home. operation boo 3.0
carson curry reports on part one of a two- part series on teen suicide. >> i would never want
what i went through to happen to another family. >> reporter: andre bearman has dealt with
mental health close to home and the family has had to fight another stigma and social shame is
running her daughter's mental health. saucony it was so important as i have a daughter that
43

struggles with neurological disorders and also mental illness, and through new year's, just
thought a lot of stigma and shame surrounding that. >> reporter: her daughter was sent to
treatment when she was 15 for 2.5 years for having suicidal thoughts. susan holt, on the other
hand said she wanted to spread awareness for her daughter, grace. like i did lose my daughter
to suicide for years ago. grace holt. and i would never want anyone to go through it. >>
reporter: this fall, they teamed together to make champions of change. a group of proteins to
connect through open conversations about suicide, and a depression.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 13 • 8:56 AM

B_MAR_OREG_49

now to a tragic update on a hit and run that killed a springfield woman in january. police said dn-a testing confirmed that human remains found on a pickup truck owned by 73 year old
charles wilcott matched that of the victim's. wilcott was later found dead inside his home...
after an apparent suicide. nevay frymire was killed while crossing main street near 54th. at least
two vehicles hit her... but neither stopped. police say a rollover crash on highway 126 in
springfield earlier today was caused by a driver trying to change lanes. it happened around 6
o'clock this morning not far from the i-5 interchange. a man driving a truck hit a woman in
another car, causing her vehicle to roll over through a fence and land in a nearby business. the
woman made it out with only minor injuries. police said it's a reminder to pay attention on the
road. check your blindspots. they're always there. check them before you do the lane change
no word on if the driver of that truck was cited.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 13 • 8:04 AM

B_MAR_OREG_50

The County sheriff in OLYMPIA Washington is just now rare revealing information about bodies
bodies of a woman and child found by hikers in a wooded area earlier this week sheriffs say the
deaths are suspicious but they don't believe it was a murder-suicide bodies were found about 3
miles East of the city.
KONG-SEA
Mar 12 • 2:50 PM

B_MAR_WASH_26

bout the terrifying murder of expectant mother margaret perk. margaret's brother mike now
joins us via zoom. thanks for being here and being willing to revisit this painful episode in your
family's history and life. how did you feel when your sister's death was ruled a suicide? >> it
was -- it was just almost like a gut punch just shock as we knew she didn't. she didn't kill herself.
and the minute we got the news, that she was taken to the hospital, because of this, we all -my parents and i, this is -- what did he do? dr. oz: it's interesting that if your first response what
did he do there must have been red flags from scott early in their relationship. can you walk me
through that? >> oh, absolutely. scott and i went to school together. so there had been
different things he had done all -- through high school. and just very odd. my mom had even
tried to talk her out of it. and offered her money. just get away from him. there was
44

unfortunately she -- meg wouldn't listen and nothing they could do. we ended up probably
about a week after they got married, that's when we found out that they were married. dr. oz:
they were married secretly. >> secret from us. his family was invited. but yeah. we -- you know,
they just didn't tell us about it. and i guess they knew. how we felt. and right after she died,
that's when he was originally arrested for being the ninja burglar or bandit or whatever he
called himself. so that was another red flag right there. afterward. like we kind of hoped that
well, maybe this will shed some light on something else. but unfortunately, it did not. dr. oz:
what was it like in 2015 where scott was finally sentenced to life in prison for murdering your
sister? how did that feel? >> it was a relief. i mean, but in the -- letting the world know what the
truth was and what we always knew. but it also, i mean, it didn't seem like it was enough. wish
there had been more that he could have been charged with. in 1985. and they had nothing that
could be done about the baby dying. and could happen now, he could have been charged with
that, too. and getting a longer sentence. but with the -- with the sentence he's got on top of
what he was already serving, he's in there for life. so we have to be happy with that. dr. oz:
thank you for coming on and talking openly about what happened to your family. good luck
going forward. to learn more about margaret's cold-blooded measureder and other chilling
cases tune in to lhn forensic files 2 at sock p.m. on Sunday
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 12 • 4:42 PM

B_MAR_OREG_51

the legal team for former army intelligence analyst chelsea manning says she attempted suicide
in jail yesterday is now recovering in the hospital a manning has been behind bars since may for
refusing to testify to a grand jury about sharing military and diplomatic secrets with wikileaks in
2010. she was convicted in 2013 of giving wikileaks. >> millions of classified records in a video
of a us helicopter firing on civilians and journalists in iraq. manning spent about 7 years in a
military prison former president barack obama commuted her sentence. she is scheduled for a
hearing on friday on a motion to terminate the contempt.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Mar 12 • 9:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_27

Her lawyers said she attempted suicide in jail a federal judge has ordered the release of onetime army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning a day after her lawyers said she attempted
suicide in suburban jail a federal judge has ordered the release of one-time army intelligence
analyst Chelsea Manning she had been held in nearby Alexandria Virginia since May for refusing
to testify before a grand jury investigating wikileaks in fact she was jailed even earlier for
refusing to testify in a different case the civil contempt citation was designed to coerce her
testimony the judge ordered her released now saying the current grand jury has been
disbanded but she still has to pay more than a quarter million dollars in fines.

45

KING-SEA (NBC)
Mar 13 • 8:04 AM

B_MAR_WASH_28

chelsea manning was released thursday from a virginia jail where she had been jailed for a year
for contempt. she had refused to testify in the ongoin wikileaks investigation. she attempted
suicide. the judge said the jury no longer needed to hear from her manning served seven years
in military prison for leaking files.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Mar 12 • 5:16 PM

B_MAR_WASH_29

king county sheriff's deputy escaped with his life after his patrol vehicle was hit by a fully
loaded cement truck. >> it is fully loaded with concrete. thankfully he's okay and conscious and
alert. >> we put you over the wreckage after this morning's crash this all unfolded near the on
ramp to i-5. investigators say eyewitnesses give them conflicting accounts of what exactly
happened. both the deputy and the semi driver are expected to be okay. >>> detectives are
trying to locate this suv that may be connected to the murder of a woman and child in thurston
county. their bodies were found on puget beach road last night. their deaths are suspicious.
detectives do not believe it was a murder suicide. the medical examiner has not identified the
victims yet.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 12 • 4:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_52

tonight... police said d-n-a testing confirmed that human remains found on a pickup truck
owned by 73-year-old charles wilcott matched that of the victim's. nevay frymire was killed
while crossing main street near 54th. at least two vehicles hit her... but neither stopped. wilcott
was later found dead inside his home... after an apparent suicide. a man running for eugene
city council -- accused of getting into a fight at a convenience store -- has pleaded not guilty to
menacing and disorderly conduct sean dwyer was arrested back in january outside the "buy 2"
store on broadway. he said an employee called his transgender girlfriend a "she male" -- and
mocked her by calling her "sir" several times. witnesses say dwyer got into an argument, threw
a beer on the floor, pulled out a gun and threatened people outside. dwyer claims he could
have reacted better but denies threatening anyone with his gun. his trial starts April 30th.
KOBI
Mar 13 • 5:24 PM

B_MAR_OREG_53

a new study reveals 8- percent of 9 and 10 year olds in the u-s... have thought about suicide .
just over 1-percent actually attempted to take their own life. researchers say kids with
psychological problems and those exposed to family conflict... were more likely to report
suicidal thoughts. the risk was lowest among children with more parental supervision and a
positive view of school. if you or someone you know are struggling with thoughts of suicide...
there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.
46

KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 13 • 6:42 PM

B_MAR_OREG_54

steve: in tonight's everyday heroes, when it comes to choral condubilitying, artistic director
jason sabino is at the top of his game. he earned his master's degree in choral conducting from
portland state university and is involved as the director of numerous other choirs in high school
ensembles. ape months ago his career and his life nearly ended. it's an early evening at century
high school in hillsboro, and the combined voices of singers from two choirs are warming up. >>
nice are relaxed. make sure you're breathing, open up that throat. >> steve: it's one of several
rehearsals for members of the oregon chorale and the maybell community singers. upcoming
concerts by the two choirs will feature music related to mental health and the healing
therapeutic power of music. >> it's only within the last six months where there's finally some
normalcy back in my family. but it's never going to be the same. >> steve: oregon chorale
artistic director jason sabino was diagnosed four years ago with adhd and bipolar disorder.
during a mental health crisis 18 months ago, he came close to suicide. >> at some point i
actually had a knife in my hand. that was really intense. that was at that moment i called the
cops on myself, called 9-1-1. >> steve: he voluntarily checked himself into the psychiatric ward
at providence st. vincent hospital and spent a week there. and another month away from his
infant daughter and his wife while undergoing therapy. >> in a way it's also made us stronger.
so i'd like to think that way, anyway. and it's made me a stronger person anyway. which led me
to this concert. >> steve: as the artistic director for the oregon chorale, now in its 35th year, he
wondered how he could use his art to become a platform for mental health awareness. he
contacted crystal akins, the musical director for the maybell community singers, a choir formed
to bring singers living in the margins of society a voice. up to change. i show up to have
something grow. >> steve: for maybell community singer jackie smith, a member for four years,
the music brings her unmitigated joy. >> you don't have to think about anything, feel anything,
but the music, and just let the music flow over you and love you. >> steve: what is it about
singing with others that transforms and lifts people up? >> it's the breathing, it's connecting
with my emotions, because when you have a diagnosis sometimes you can feel very lonely and
isolated. and when you have music, you're not alone anymore.
KAYU (FOX)
Mar 12 • 10:17 PM

B_MAR_WASH_30

intelligence analyst chelsea manning... to be released from jail. but tonight she's in the
hospital... recovering from a suicide attempt. manning was convicted to leaking classified
government documents to wikileaks back in 2013... but president obama commuted her
sentence in 2017. then last year... she refused to testify for a grand jury... and she's been held
in contempt of court for the last 10 months. she was set to appear at a hearing for civil
penalties in her case next week... but tried to take her own life last night. once she recovers
though... she'll be able to get out of jail. the grand jury she refused to testify for... has ended...
so the judge ruled her testimony is no longer needed.

47

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 12 • 1:25 PM

B_MAR_WASH_31

NBC'S aerial shot reported Chelsea Manning the hospital after trying to take her own life the
legal team for the former U.S. army analyst says she is recovering after attempting suicide on
Wednesday and a virginia jail a statement notes Manning is still scheduled to appear on Friday
for a previously scheduled court hearing the 32 year-old has been in custody since last year
when she refused to testify before a grand jury.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Mar 14 • 8:05 PM

B_MAR_WASH_32

a senior tweeting a little bit about the military suicides solution and I have to save other you
and I both know so many people have been affected by suicide and you guys are not just
tweeting about the crisis has a problem but yet you guys are doing things rolling up her sleeves
and offering solutions and talk about the Clay hunt save Act report you guys recently discussing
chairs the Clay hunt say that to lose and create a few years ago I mean Hey honor of veterans
advocate who took his own life and this was supposed to be a road map to solve a suicide
epidemic and billions and billions of dollars tens of millions of dollars have been spent since
then and Unfortunately we're not seeing progress and Congress when the crew that lobby
mandated that there would be congressional report they would pay 8 tens of thousands of
dollars for each year so they could see the progress and see how it was working and we dug in
and Unfortunately both of these reports showed that that it's just not working nearly well
enough no word only effective for about a third of the veterans were coming into the system
and when talk of the system talk about these mental health care system so it about two thirds
are still falling through the cracks for a variety of reasons and the bottom line in the booth v
needs to be allowed to use that word is key here lauer to try new things to try new ways to to
attack this problem in move away from just that the pharmaceutical and talk there he knows to
work but not nearly to the extent that we need them to work now while that's bad news
embeds isn't contempt just sit hard on Congress to do something about it actually rolling up
their sleeves and creating programs that can be enacted that will help make a difference in this
suicide epidemic right now I spoke about one of these programs with Ms. director of advocacy
and chairman Gillum junior two years ago we started to feel program which was intended to to
give us some way to intervene the lives of veterans and family members themselves prices
while we did a great job of putting resources around veterans hope is to or storing records we
want to make sure that we were keeping up with the latest in terms of best practices our chief
medical executive Rhys jackson and I decided to do it but can't assist train which stands for
apply suicide intervention skills training in just a global standard for applying which hawke she
sai first-aid but this allows us to work we're not going to save everybody we're not gonna stop
everybody from want to digress things can get moment to get healthy adventure decide at least
at the moment I would just like you saw a little longer.

48

B_MAR_OREG_55

FM News 101 KXL
Mar 13 • 7:10 AM

woman who pleaded not guilty to more than a dozen sex crimes involving an underage person
she knew has been found dead in her jail cell teen catch was charged in linn County Circuit
court last month with 7 sex crimes trial scheduled for next month catch him is dead of an
apparent suicide her body was found earlier this week.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 12 • 5:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_56

we have an update on that tragic hit and run that killed a springfield woman in january. police
say d-n-a testing confirms that human remains found on a pickup truck owned by 73-year-old
charles wilcott matched that of the victim's. nevay frymire was killed while crossing main street
near 54th. at least two vehicles hit her... but neither stopped. wilcott was later found dead
inside his home... after an apparent suicide. no one was hurt... after shots rang out in a eugene
neighborhood early this morning. police say it happened just after 5 near 14th avenue and mill
alley. when officers arrived, they spotted a suspect vehicle and detained four people.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 12 • 1:15 PM

B_MAR_WASH_33

Chelsea Manning is in the hospital after trying to take her own life the legal team for the former
U.S. army analysts said she's recovering after an attempted suicide at suicide on Wednesday in
a virginia jail a statement notes Manning is still scheduled to appear on Friday for a previously
scheduled court hearing.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Mar 14 • 8:10 PM

B_MAR_WASH_34

always glad to have you know your social feed is full of the issues that I am vets is addressing
and as the oldest congressionally chartered veterans service organization it is no surprise they
see on Capitol Hill the I.C.U. tweeting and Facebooking about all kinds of issues and most
recently a senior tweeting a little bit about the military suicides solution and I have to save
other you and I both know so many people have been affected by suicide and you guys are not
just tweeting about the crisis has a problem but yet you guys are doing things rolling up her
sleeves and offering solutions and talk about the Clay hunt save Act report you guys recently
discussing chairs the Clay hunt say that to lose and create a few years ago I mean Hey honor of
veterans advocate who took his own life and this was supposed to be a road map to solve a
suicide epidemic and billions and billions of dollars tens of millions of dollars have been spent
since then and Unfortunately we're not seeing progress and Congress when the crew that lobby
mandated that there would be congressional report they would pay 8 tens of thousands of
dollars for each year so they could see the progress and see how it was working and we dug in
and Unfortunately both of these reports showed that that it's just not working nearly well
49

enough no word only effective for about a third of the veterans were coming into the system
and when talk of the system talk about these mental health care system so it about two thirds
are still falling through the cracks for a variety of reasons and the bottom line in the booth v
needs to be allowed to use that word is key here lauer to try new things to try new ways to to
attack this problem in move away from just that the pharmaceutical and talk there he knows to
work but not nearly to the extent that we need them to work now while that's bad news
embeds isn't contempt just sit hard on Congress to do something about it actually rolling up
their sleeves and creating programs that can be enacted that will help make a difference in this
suicide epidemic right now I spoke about one of these programs with Ms. director of advocacy
and chairman Gillum junior two years ago we started to feel program which was intended to to
give us some way to intervene the lives of veterans and family members themselves prices
while we did a great job of putting resources around veterans hope is to or storing records we
want to make sure that we were keeping up with the latest in terms of best practices our chief
medical executive Rhys jackson and I decided to do it but can't assist train which stands for
apply suicide intervention skills training in just a global standard for applying which hawke she
sai first-aid but this allows us to work we're not going to save everybody we're not gonna stop
everybody.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 15 • 8:45 AM

B_MAR_OREG_57

when it comes to choral conducting, jason sabino is at the top of his game. he earned his
master's degree in choral conducting from portland state university, as an -- and is involved as
the director of numerous choirs and high school ensembles. but you an months ago, his career
and his life nearly ended. steve dunn has more. >> roll your shoulders. >> steve: it's an early
evening at century high school in hillsboro and the combined voices of singers from two choirs
are warming up. >> can you make sure you're breathing, open up that throat. >> steve: it's one
of several rehearsals for members of the oregon chorale and the maybell community singers.
upcoming concerts by the two choirs will feature music related to mental health and the
healing, therapeutic power of music. >> it's only within the last six months where there's finally
some normalcy back in my family. but it's never going to be the same. >> steve: oregon chorale
artistic director jason sabino was diagnosed four years ago with adhd and bipolar disorder.
during a mental health crisis 18 months ago, he came close to suicide. >> at some point i
actually had a neidorf in my hand. that was really intense. that was at that moment i called the
caps on myself, called 9-1-1. >> steve: he voluntarily checked himself into the psychiatric ward
at providence st. vincent hospital and spent a week there, and another month away from his
infant daughter and his wife while undergoing therapy. >> in a way it's also made us stronger.
so i'd like to think that way, anyway. and it's made me a stronger person anyway. which led me
to this concert. >> steve: as the artistic director for the oregon chorale, now in its 35th year, he
wondered how to use his art to become a platform for mental health awareness. he contacted
the musical director for the maybell community singers. a choir formed to bring singers living in
the margins of society a voice. >> whenever i make music, i show up to change. i show up to
have something grow. >> steve: for mays about bell community singer jackie smith, a member
for four years, the music brings her unmitigated joy. >> you don't have to think about anything,
50

feel anything, but just the music, and let the music flow over you and love you. >> steve: what is
it about singing with others that transforms and lifts people up? >> it's the breathing, it's
connecting with my emotions, because when you have a diagnosis sometimes you can feel very
lonely and isolated. and when you have music, you're not alone anymore.
Fox 12 Plus
Mar 16 • 8:40 PM

B_MAR_OREG_58

and tonight-- a suspect has been arrested for manslaughter. deputies responded to the teal
pointe apartments on northeast 9th avenue around 2 a-m. at first-- the case was reported as a
possible suicide-- but investigators determined that person was killed. they arrested 20 year old
korbin bourn-- he now faces charges of manslaughter and unlawful possession of a firearm. the
name of the victim has not yet been released.
AM 860
Mar 16 • 10:35 AM

B_MAR_OREG_59

They have job security what they promote is ending the livelihoods of an untold number of
Americans the ripple effects are staggering divorced depression or suicidal fan the number of
dead at this time in the United States as long as of this moment is harrowing 72 somebody
coming from Mars would do really wonder what's going on at even if you take the number 8
you know the worst case was the worst case China and Iran middle right I don't know folks
these words were the questions I think our really want to take your calls very interesting very
some very interesting Williams 67 67 as of this moment news they will probably be more
suicides as a result of of the loss of income most business mean that literally I don't want to
happen I don't want anybody to die folks say we have to hear.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 16 • 9:26 AM

B_MAR_OREG_60

I'm highly intolerant of uncertainty some people don't have such a hard time with that we know
that those who do are really feeling distressed now so what about the country's leadership the
government's response is that clear role in anxiety the messaging received plays a huge role
and anxiety we know from recent study Lassa that's receiving consistent accurate science-based
information from leaders does reduce the psychological stress related to social Justice saying
some corn seeing isolations that kind of messaging is really critical right now we think about the
isolation and social distancing which is for our own good it can induce a sense of isolation in this
whole idea of working from home where the possible mental health considerations when we
social distance ourselves well we know that again from the research that it does have a
negative emotional effect can be distressing people can become bull words can become hope
less depression anxiety and increasing that's in part because of social creatures we need to be
connected to others so when things really encouraging people to do is turn member to connect
virtually whether it's text messaging phone video chatting really staying connected to loved
ones especially those that are the most vulnerable and isolated is critical right now we know
51

that statistically if it's not you and someone you know what love is was suffering with mental
illness or addiction before they operate what is this new normal mean for them and the care
that they need that those who had pre-existing mental health and substance use conditions are
even more vulnerable then than those without and so we need to Be there for supporting them
we need to remind them to take extra care to double down on yourself care to make sure
they're eating healthy getting some activity making sure they're sleeping sticking through 18
staying away from alcohol on substances and again just really using this coping skills that works
for them exercise my funnest music whatever his strip mining that they got to am working hard
right now to take care of themselves now is that what the cdc is also recommending for the
social isolation because sometimes you just need a hug Yeah so sometimes you might need a
virtual hug in this case but I think that we absolutely have to stay connected we need a sense of
community we're not inspire celcs I S keeping herself socially isolated are maintaining that
distance isn't just to keep yourself healthy it's to make sure that we're keeping our whole
community helping for remind yourself that this is you know everyone in it together I think that
helped him so how do you recommend that we actually struck sure our days in their routines in
this new normal she tried to keep things as they would then during the workweek or school or
whatever you know your daily routine one offense so not treating us like a vacation but instead
getting up at the same hour making sure eating meals at the same time trying to go but at the
same time maintaining you know all those good social hygiene injured done like taking a
shower brush your teeth just know really trying to treat this as this is the new normal for right
now hopefully this won't last forever but with the uncertainty of what it can and it's it is
certainly a challenging time with this collective anxiety the world feeling I wonder is there any
precedent for this in the past I think not and most of our adult lifetimes this is really the first
time we've experienced a pandemic related to a biological disease I think some compare the
experienced what it might have been like to go to say it won't work to but I think for most of us
this is pretty unprecedented in August and have to get through it together they're comparing it
to what would have been like to go through world war two but thank you so much bill right is a
clinical psychologist and director of clinical research and quality at the American psychological
Association bail thanks for joining us and if you or someone you know struggling having
thoughts of suicide you can call the National suicide Prevention lifeline at 102.3 8 to 5 5 or
more than any help line at 809.0 and me am I that 6.6 4 is this the takeaway call us at 8.7 8 my
take coming up any story.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 16 • 4:46 PM

B_MAR_OREG_61

we're following a developing story now out of missouri tonight. we want to share exactly what's
happening with you to make sure we're getting this right because we know 4 people including a
police officer are dead. >> after a shooting at a gas station and convenience store in springfield,
missouri. the officer 3 by standards and a gunman were all found dead inside they got reports
of a gunman shooting from a cart several locations late last night then even crashing his car into
the store. he then ran in and started shooting stopped the first 2 police officers who were there
to respond. the other officer is expected to survive. >> are is way too early. >> just leave it that

52

we're still actively investigating multiple crime scenes and dealing with reading of the loss of
one of our own. >> and police have also said that now they think the gunman killed himself.
News Radio KEX
Mar 16 • 12:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_ 62

the Clark County sheriff's office is investigating a homicide was originally reported as a suicide
the call came in just before to this morning at the teal point apartment investigators were told
it was a suicide but it termed it was homicide the 20 year-old court been born was arrested and
charged with manslaughter and unlawful possession of a firearm and not released any
information about the person who was killed.
88.5 KNKX
Mar 16 • 7:30 PM

B_MAR_WASH_35

Hey Let's hope those tested outside a shrewd all be part of that was interesting you mention
taylor because Taylor was flunk my class basically because he never came to class before that
happened and he he was probably dead at Yue Yuen Taylor probably to that helped most on
the whole project and your grade was in good shape Peter that time I come up tonight have
fireside chats with you and say Hey you got to wake up you're going to be so far behind you
never going to catch up I don't want to sound like a mole judgmental good I am you know
teachers are judgmental it's our job to be judged so there was really nice to see him as a caring
you know concerned people that before I come off like a lot of give much about anything the
coffin was made of wood the cross was made for the top students and teachers wrote
messages chair Ryan on the confidence lenient inside what did you rate in and inside I can you
remember that I probably said something like I love you Ryan this was the 5th coffee and Mike
his knee for staff and students in his 25 years Frank climb to for people who worked at the
school and 3 procure it's the student coffins of the hardest Pino because should happen said
this is that there it didn't work with us to remember the situations that was basically an
assassination he was glib drake on the road and he had a ground-floor apartment somebody
came up and on his window at night and johnny went over to find out who was made great on
the other side of the window they just shot and then the other was a suicide or a kid really
great kid another one of my students all 3 of the people the students we made for good kids I
had the student who committed suicide was said dreamer his mother brought him to the U.S.
undocumented when he was a small child his mother got in trouble and even during Obama's
terminal as President they were trying to deport him because his mother got in trouble with the
law and he had married his high school sweetheart they just had a baby and they were going
through trying to deport him and I know two weeks some before they are deported to make me
it's a respect and that's that would probably pisses me off the most because that's just piss me
off all should thank you for standing.

53

KONG-SEA
Mar 17 • 6:50 AM

B_MAR_WASH_36

angela: we are talking about self-care on our show today to help you. our nation is in the midst
of a growing mental illness epidemic that include suicide, depression, bipolar disorder
addictions, and more. our next guest as it is not to be that way. joining us is the author of 12
"new york times" best-selling books. "the washington post" has called the most popular
psychiatrist in america. great to have you with us. >> hi, and g. >> angela: americans are under
a lot of stress and struggling with mental illness in the workplace. >> we look at the blame is
that people who struggling with their behavior. that's what we do at the clinic. we have a clinic
in chicago, and we think we should look at your brain before we go about changing it. you see
things like mild traumatic brain injury, or lyme's disease, toxic exposure. it plays a significant
role in why brains aren't healthy and when you get your brain right, your mind tends to be a lot
better. >> angela: what are some of the most important lessons that you've learned from your
research? >> thank you for asking. the biggest lesson is you are not stuck with the brain you
have. you can make it better and i can prove it. based on -- it's the world's largest database with
brain scans related to behavior. we have thousands of before and after scans showing when
you do the right thing. when you love your brain and to avoid things that heard it. when you do
things that help it you have to know those. your brain can be better very quickly. >> angela: are
there actions people can take to actually help the brain? >> the first thing is love your brain. it's
like, really care about it. nobody cares about their brain because you can't see it. throughout
the book i talk about tiny habits. what's the smallest thing you can do today that would make
the biggest difference? my favorite tiny habit, whenever you go to do something, eat
something, drink something, say something. ask yourself, is this good for my brain? is it bad for
it? when i wanted to stay up late last night, is a good or bad? i have to get up early the next day,
go to bed, bad. >> angela: we would love if you share some of your success stories with us. >>
there are so many success stories in the book, the end of mental illness. one of my favorite
ones, lisa gibbons, her mother and grandmother died with alzheimer's disease. when i scanned
her at 51, her brain was clearly headed to the dark place. by doing all of the things i
recommended in the book…
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Mar 17 • 4:15 PM

B_MAR_WASH_37

new tonight, the parents of susan cox powell will have to wait even longer in their search for
justice against the state. >> they are suing the department of social and health services for the
wrongful deaths, other grandchildren and the boy's father, josh powell, murdered them and
then killed himself during a supervised visit in 2012. the trial was put on a 30-day recess
because of the coronavirus pandemic the jury has agreed to go back to hear the final days of
testimony in closing arguments. once the court decides when the trial can continue.

54

KFXO (FOX)
Mar 17 • 11:28 AM

B_MAR_OREG_63

authorities in North Carolina say seven people were found dead in three homes in moncure on
sunday. the three houses are all on the same property. the incident is being investigated as a
murder-suicide. the victims range in age from 39-years- old to 93. family members say
authorities in north carolina say seven people were found dead in three homes in moncure on
sunday. the three houses are all on the same property. the incident is being investigated as a
murder-suicide. the victims range in age from 39-years- old to 93. family members say the
suspected shooter was a 66-year-old man. the chatham county sheriff's office says the incident
is not considered to be random and there is no further threat to anyone else.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 17 • 6:05 AM

B_MAR_OREG_64

in other news this morning, pa person was found dead in a clark county apartment and this
morning a man is behind bars for manslaughter. deputies responded at about 2:00 yesterday
morning. at first the case was ruled as a suicide, but they later determined the person had been
killed. the name of the victim has not been released.
KXLY (ABC)
Mar 17 • 6:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_38

a Spokane valley woman is accused of trying to murder her five-year-old son -- by suffocating
him. 38-year-old daphne williams called authorities and said she tried to suffocate and
overdose her son -- then tried to kill herself. when deputies arrived, they said the young boy
was in and out of consciousness. tonight, the child is hospitalized in satisfactory condition.
williams appeared in court yesterday - her bail set at one million dollars
KREM (CBS)
Mar 18 • 5:55 AM

B_MAR_WASH_39

mental health and learning disorders are the most common illnesses of childhood and
adolescence. 1 out of 5 young people struggle with disorders like depression, dyslexia, adhd,
ocd, eating disorders, and anxiety. i was one of them. as a child, i struggled with crippling
anxiety, the most common and least recognized childhood mental health disorder. the mental
health crisis in america is really a children's mental health crisis. every year, over a million
young people visit the er because of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. 5,000 die by suicide.
when we ignore mental health, we lose our children. we have the tools to stem this crisis if
we're willing. the child mind institute is the leader in the field. it's the place where kids are
getting better. and the place that is doing the research and developing the programs that will
change the landscape of children's mental health. to learn more visit childmind.org.

55

B_MAR_WASH_40

KFFX (FOX)
Mar 18 • 8:36 AM

right now -- a spokane valley mother is in jail... accused of trying to kill her 5-year-old son.
spokane county sheriff's deputies say 8-year-old daphne williams, identified herself and said
she tried to suffocate and overdose her five-year-old son before trying to kill herself. williams is
in the spokane county jail on a one-million-dollar bond... charged with attempted murder. her
son is in the hospital recovering... and is now in satisfactory condition.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Mar 18 • 6:04 AM

B_MAR_WASH_41

there has been a search of anxiety in wall street and across the country and at large of course
and we want to go there is help if you need it. the prices text line has been helping people since
2013 and you can reach out to help him out more than ever, people think that emotional
support in the midst of this outbreak. amity addrisi looked at the data that they are getting
about the mental issues and mental health concerns that are happening across the country. are
they saying. >> the one thing they are seeing is people are scared. we are not feeling good
about this uncertainty over everything right now. and more than half of the cost are texts
would like to high anxiety or stress. that is not surprising but what is surprising is the average
age of people reaching out for help. >> when the counselor digs in and talks about how are
things going with your mom, i need the conversation it turns out to be helpful. people have a
lot of anxiety about what will help with their loved ones and talking that through and seeing are
there ways to strengthen the relationship even when you might be at home and isolated in that
moment. it is very powerful. >> people are really worried about the parents and so older people
are calling the crisis text line and typically it is a younger crowd but basically, financial stressors,
pressures from home, parents stuck inside with the home with kids and it is all a lot and the
data available shows us we are not alone. again 40% of the calls they receive a related to
anxiety right now and the crisis text line cofounder and chief data scientist bob philbin says
they are ready to take on a heavy load. >> the state crisis text line. we are glad we were made
for this moment. we have a fully distributed volunteered networks of people who are at home,
volunteering on their computer and we have over 5000 counselors right now around the
country. who are volunteers and they are there to support. >> this is an incredible network and
another statistic. it is so boring. washington state ranks 5th in the nation for crisis related to
suicide and if you are in pain, forget the stigma. reach out for help, text home to 741, 741. it is
free and counselors are trained to be active listener so nobody will talk at you and if you want
to text someone will support you can do that as well.

56

KONG-SEA
Mar 18 • 4:25 PM

B_MAR_WASH_42

a lot of us are feeling overwhelmed and anxious. >> we spoke with mental health expert about
how to manage your stress and anxiety. >> anxiety means i have physical symptoms. my sleep
may be disruptive. i may have a headache. my heart rate goes up. when you get anxiety, your
breathing goes shallow. how am i managing my own physical body? this is a good time for us to
look at our self-care issues. what is the first thing you can do? we need to remember if we are
working from home or we are managing another layer with kids at home, when we are anxious,
we forget to do simple things. know it sounds funny, but we forget to drink water. people under
anxiety drink less water and more other things. I’m going to say it, we are seeing alcohol
consumption go up. that is not help of. the more we isolate, the more we do self-destructive
behaviors. we have to get outside and go for a 20-minute brisk walk. we have to keep our
movement up. >> how do you know if you are dealing with anxiety that it gets to a potentially
dangerous level? >> it means i will become more impulsive. i might become impulsive in
spending. desperation breeds panic. i might feel like this is too much. i cannot handle this.
unfortunately, i think some people feel suicidal thoughts. there can be an increase in suicidal
thoughts. that is a sign that i let this go too far. hope comes when we have a plan. have a plan.
feel like you have what you need. stay in good, healthy connections with people. we either do
self-care or we are self-absorbed with fear. we have a choice. even if you don't feel like moving,
do it. don't feel like drinking the water? do it. we have that choice. all these will add up to okay,
i have more hope here. >> great words of wisdom.
KBNZ
Mar 19 • 6:34 AM

B_MAR_OREG_65

reporter: according to a study sponsored by the aarp foundation, a quarter of the country's
senior citizens call themselves socially isolated. and with more than 50 million americans over
65, that means loneliness is already a crisis. >> where they are lonely, that's where we really
worry about increased risks of depression. and unfortunately suicide is also a concern. older
adults have very high suicide rates. >> reporter: in california's locked down bay area, bruce bell
misses his visits to the public library. >> that's what i did on my bike. i rode my bike to these
libraries. you know, that -- that sort of outlet is gone. you know, i don't know what i'm going to
do. >> reporter: marady says the best way it he nlp thes ation' seniors is to stay in touch. not by
text or email but by picking up the phone and showing some love. nancy chen, cbs news, new
york.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 19 • 8:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_43

a sheriff's deputy in minnesota has been acquitted in the shooting death of a suicidal man in
2018 as mets epic of Minnesota public radio reports the officer testified that he feared course
on life prosecutors charged 32 year-old Washington County deputy Brian crook with
manslaughter in the 2018 shooting of Benjamin Evans the 23 year-old off-duty GMT had been
57

distraught after breaking up with his girlfriend he refused dozens of commands to drop his gun
during a 39 minute standoff but officers did convince him to remove its magazine defense
attorney Kevin short says crooks had no choice but to fire at evidence each turned all the way
around and the gun was pointed directly at officers after the off service found not guilty Evans
parents said that their son was in crisis and the deputies who responded fail to help him.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 20 • 11:12 AM

B_MAR_OREG_66

we are going to talk in-depth about the mental health impacts from the coronavirus pandemic.
but first...a close- up look at youth era's life-saving efforts. we first introduced you to the
organization in november. a lot of their efforts are focused online, and they say right now, they
are overwhelmed with requests for support during this coronvirus outbreak. behind her smile&
22:05:50 (laughs) is sheer survival... alice 21:54:19 sadness. yeah. ...for north bend 18- year-old
alice strong. alice strong, suicide survivor 21:47:58 I was 7 when i first attempted suicide. i was
9 the second time. i was 13 the 3rd time. i was 16 the 4th time. and the 5th time was just 2
months ago. a lifetime of isolation... alice when will i have friends? when is everything going to
be ok? ...that 20 year old trevor paxton can relate to. trevor paxton guess i never really felt like
my life meant much. at this moment, i don't really think it means that much. self-doubt and
more for matthew lewis. matthew lewis depression, anxiety, social anxiety. and i actually
attempted suicide. bryan if youth era wasn't around, where would you be?... the suicideprevention group...that connects these young oregonians. trevor ...probably dead right now.
matthew lewis to be honest, i don't know if i'd be alive if i hadn't found youth era. bryan
21:54:23 do you think about how much youth era has helped, that you're sitting with me right
now? alice yeah. bryan what does that feel like? alice good. december will mark ten years since
youth era opened its doors in eugene. martin rafferty, youth era founder and ceo 20:16:45 we
know that we're the last defense for a lot of these young people. martin rafferty is the founder
and c- e-o. martin 20:14:16 youth era isn't a 9 to 5 organization. we exist because the
traditional systems don't have a way of reaching young people where they're at. where they're
at he says is online...even in their most desperate moments. martin 20:15:20 in today's world,
young people aren't walking into doctors' offices when they need help. they're not going in and
talking to therapists about depression. they're doing that online. they're doing it on these social
media platforms.
News Radio KEX
Mar 20 • 11:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_67

I know what it's like to struggle with mental health issues if you have a friend it's going through
a tough time now's the perfect moment to reach out perhaps to the conversation that sees the
opera . that you buy and consume the American Foundation for suicide Prevention and the
nation social media instagram has brought out the ego maniacs and a lot of people I really do
David gosh you are absolutely correct I mean you are reading on Monday night

58

KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 20 • 6:15 AM

B_MAR_OREG_68

fears and worries are running high in the united states as we try to slow the spread of the
coronavirus tele medicine and meditation apps are becoming a popular way to cope with the
coronavirus as well as manage other mental health conditions. tom hanson has more. >> the
novel coronavirus outbreak is causing a lot of stress and anxiety nationwide people are
concerned about going out there concerned about going to stores. doctors offices therapist
offices, we'll leave what is the chief medical officer of talks face which provides psychiatric care
and therapy through video based appointments and text messaging apps like talk space and
better help are seen big increases in people accessing their sites for care their anxiety is really
an elevated train peak so really can serve and help mitigate this problem. eye opening access
making therapist available to clients in their time of need from the comfort and convenience of
their own. leave would says clients are fearful about getting the coronavirus and protecting
their families financial anxiety is also weighing very heavily on that. >> mindfulness and
meditation can also help in this stressful time. the popular app headspace says it's providing
free subscriptions to health care workers for the rest of the year to help them cope with rising
stress levels and burnout experts say supporting yourself is even more important now than ever
they suggest making time to unwind and doing activities you enjoy prior to that is america was
really going through mental health crisis. >> anxieties been an all time high depressions been an
all time high suicide rates are up. >> when you superimpose this pandemic it increases and
elevates the fear even more so people really need to take self-care eating healthy exercising
regularly and getting plenty of sleep is also key. >> and if you find that the stress from all of this
is getting in the way of your daily activities for several days. call your healthcare provider.
KOHD (ABC)
Mar 20 • 8:31 AM

B_MAR_OREG_69

happy friday morning for us, and thank you to the millions of americans who are stepping up to
support one another during these confusing times, and i like to shine a light on a guproha ts t'
ry vese clomy to rt heaan, d it changed things up to help veterans get through these tough
times. it's a program called meinrgg vets and players or mvp. i had a chance to visit the gym
beocfore sstial di hancingad to en happ. ec chk oitut. >> reporter: unbre gakableym in l.a.it ef's
a r tuge toenhese m and whwomen fo haveoughout for r y.countr >> they're the smartest
group of people you'll ever be around. >> reporter: jay glazer,he t gy s m'neowanr tsd spor
commentator, created this program merging vets and players ro to pdeviet vanerans erd form
esathletit wh sqa new uad. h >> dow youoing? >> reporter: my colleague sara haine es came
with mto check it out. e' >> winre tryakg to te ex-combat vets and it started with nfl players, but
now it's all sports, people who need a team again. >> guys are stlo. they don't have thatro gup
to go to because your life was always structured and regimented and they're released into the
world without the guys to back them up and communicate with them. that's the challenge for
most ie sold rs.ep >> r jorter:ay realiatzed th bo th veterans and athleset needed support. >> a
lot of these guys when they're done, they have the same statement that our vets do, wh iich
isne'm alo. >> reporter: so before the conarohivirus set, thend men a wowomen t uld
59

getogencther oe a we aek for workout. >> someone needs slpome he, someone needs to share
something. >> reporter: followed by peer therapy session. >> i attempted suicide three times.
>> reporter: but with gyms now being shut down, mvp realized they needed to take action . >>
we figured out a way for us to be together and still honor each other. >> reporter: so they put
their program live online. >> this is what mvp is built for. brotheanrhood erd sisthood, is fo r
lngeani on oneer anoth er hardwe than ha ever d. or>> reptrter: s ieamingnto ve '
teransalhomes nglowi ttohem connect and feel supported in a o timecif soal distancing. mvp
founder jay glazer joins us now via facetime from l.a., and good morning to you. early morning
to you, jay, and, you know, right now -- >> good morning, stra. >> congratulations. this program
is amazing and i know it's a big community that you have. guys coming together, but right now
in this very isolated -- this time is very isolating for everyone, and everybody feels removed, but
it's important for you to keep this thing going, and why is that? how have you been able to keep
this thing going? >> the transition itself is lonely. we're not dealing with a virus -- when this
virus came, we needed to step things up, but i'm really proud of my crew. there's no smarter
group. our group knows how to deploy quickly or make adjustments on the field or in a ring or
in a cage or on the battlefield. in 72 hours, wgue fit red ouhow tuto vireeally m ht, andave that
ou work tt justtho get n at burag ndain, a, afteradwe h our me eantal hlklth tano for ather ur
ho. bit wasuleautif. e we're in fivendifferest citi an ofd one hi the tngs we've learned the other
day, and i o want tchange the narrative a little bit in this country if you will from social
distancing, the vets say, let's talk about physical distancing, but keeping socionally c.nected it's
imp wortante find a way to socially connect, and we did by our zoom meeting the other night.
>> it's very important to keep socially connected. is this program only available to members or
can any veteran sign up for it, and if so, how do they do it? >> you have to be a former co mbat
vet or former pro athlete o orlympian e becauso the tw of them have the same exact se mindt.
what we do is puwe're tting twthese o grogoups tether in c fiveriities ght now.is th will aloplow
pe le who aren't in one of those five es citi -- we're in vegas, atlanta, chicago, new york and los
angeles to actually join up. go to vetsandplayers.org and sign up. >> and if they do, no matter
where you live, you can join in from anywhere around the country. >> right. >> how are you
doing, and what are you doing to pass the time in this time of isolation right now? you're in l.a.
l.a. has been shut down. what are you doing to pass the time? >> you know me. the roommates
in my head are not good when i'm stuck by myself. that's why this is important. i have been on
every single one of these chapters so far. we have five of them going right now hoping to
expand for everybody else out there, but also it's given me some time to reflect a little bit, and i
have ed opend up angone down memory lane. i've gone h througphour oto albums. we have
our prom photo up here. did you see that? >> oh, jeez. oh, come on, glaze. >> and from your
sweet 16 also. >> okay. >> you're lucky i didn't show your bar mitzvah photo, stra. that was
coming next. >> when you said themm rooates y inadour he, you weren't joking. you got too
many of them. >> hey. en list. this is a scary tihtme rig now. laughter, kait's oy to laugh still. and
it's okay. the thing about mvp, we're vulnerable. we cry, and we laugh, but the biggest thing is
we have to do it together. >> it's an amazing program you started and i thank you from my
father and all the v other ets out th ere. l >> iove you. >> i love you too, man, but like we said,
physically distancing, but socially connected. great message, jay grazer, for everybody, if you're
a vet or not. we appreciate your time. go back to your roommates in your head, my friend. >>>

60

coming up, going to tell youw hoan everyday hero's beautiful message is bringing o hope
thousand we'll be right back with more.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Mar 21 • 7:45 AM

B_MAR_WASH_44

a lot of us are going to have trouble differentiating the weekends from the the weekdays is not
I was but go ahead Yeah I I think it's important to find ways to make the weekend different own
arguments happen seems hissy fits what do you do to defuse tension and this is coming up and
roommate situations where people might be a little bit mismatched anyway and I really really
suggests that if you're in conflict you find a way to seperate and till it's cold out amy I can't tell
you I worry about people who might feel like they're pushed over the line but this maybe don't
want to get more specific than that sky especially worry about the sort of people who read into
me for advice court and very dysfunctional relationships and might find them and sells more or
less trapped with someone and they're not getting along with you know it's it's incredibly
challenging time I do want to say for anybody who's feeling pressed in the national suicide help
line is one of a 100 to 7.8 to 5 5 and the table answer anytime there's help out there for
everybody he knows got a lot of people when they're in distress they don't want to talk but
they will don't text.
KREM (CBS)
Mar 23 • 5:25 AM

B_MAR_WASH_45

mental health and learning disorders are the most common illnesses of childhood and
adolescence. 1 out of 5 young people struggle with disorders like depression, dyslexia, adhd,
ocd, eating disorders, and anxiety. i was one of them. as a child, i struggled with crippling
anxiety, the most common and least recognized childhood mental health disorder. the mental
health crisis in america is really a children's mental health crisis. every year, over a million
young people visit the er because of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. 5,000 die by suicide.
when we ignore mental health, we lose our children. we have the tools to stem this crisis if
we're willing. the child mind institute is the leader in the field. it's the place where kids are
getting better. and the place that is doing the research and developing the programs that will
change the landscape of children's mental health. to learn more visit childmind.org.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 23 • 4:43 PM

B_MAR_OREG_70

>> today a drive-through testing site opened in snohomish county, washington. high risk
residents with symptoms could get tested at the site but it's by appointment only. this is video
of the site in everett. people who do not show symptoms are not eligible for appointments. >>
today a new emergency testing triage opened in springfield. the site at the peace health sacred
heart medical center at riverbend is exclusively for patients not for general hefting of the virus.
they will be directed to the triage to prevent the spread. those experiencing symptoms are still
asked to call their primary care doctor first. if you have questions about symptoms or testing
61

start by calling your doctor. you can also call 211 if you're in oregon. people in washington can
call 800-526-0127, press pound. >> if you're feeling overwhelmed, you're not alone. there are
people who can help you through this difficult time. call the national lifeline. or go to suicide
prevention lifeline.org to chat with a mental health expert. see a list of tips to help you cope.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 24 • 5:35 PM

B_MAR_OREG_71

the coronavirus crisis has led to a 10% reduction in calls for service to the portland police
Department it but chief Jamie rasch says it closer look at those calls shows a disturbing trend
developing calls involving suicide attempts suicide threats with or without a weapon or up 41%
from 2019 and 21 23% from 10 days prior to the state of emergency he asks all Oregonians to
call or text loved ones to see if they need help and if you are struggling she says please check in
with a mental health crisis intervention line.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 24 • 5:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_72

police chief Jamie rasch says calls involving suicide attempt source suicide threats are up 41%
from 2019 and 23% from 10 days prior to the state of emergency declaration I ask everyone to
reach out by phone text or video chat to connect with your family friends and neighbors if
they're struggling to make sure they know how to access help which is available through the
mental health crisis intervention line or lines to life she also says request for emergency food
boxes have increased more than 6 times the same time period than 2019 and they times
compared to 10 days prior to the outbreak.
Fox 12 Plus
Mar 24 • 8:25 PM

B_MAR_OREG_73

oregon was one of a number of states struggling to meet that deadline. portland police chief
jami resch relayed some grim numbers at this morning's briefing from the city. she says calls
involving suicide attempts or suicide threats -- with or without a weapon -- are up 41 percent
from 20-19... and 23 percent from ten days before the state of emergency. (("this statistic is
concerning and there are resources for those who are struggling. i ask everyone to reach out by
text, phone or video chat to family, friends and neighbors. if they e struggling, let them know
there help which is available through the mental health crisis intervention line. Or lines for life.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Mar 24 • 4:23 PM

B_MAR_WASH_46

a warning today from emergency medical providers as we continue to try to adapt to this
coronavirus crisis, this kind of stressor can lead to an increase in family violence and even
suicide rates. liz tells us those who suffer the aftermath of that is life altering events can
sometimes take a very long time to recover. >> reporter: after several traumatic life events,
62

mary langford says she feels lucky to be alive. despite attempted suicide several times, two
times very dramatically. one time i drove myself 250 feet off a cliff. in malibu, california, and
another time i overdosed on 90 prozac and 27 klonopin which were both psychiatric
prescriptions. >> reporter: now along with catherine, specializing in holistic healing and helping
people overcome trauma and abuse, the two of them want us to know, changes happening all
around us due to the coronavirus gender damage that is far grater to us than the physical
symptoms of a viral illness. >> traumas can happen at any time. they can be the big traumas
that you hear about, sexual abuse and physical abuse, but they can also simply be financial
downturns. >> reporter: job and money loss along with family obligations those are the front
lines of emergency medicine secondly to everything from increased alcohol abuse to suicides
and domestic violence. >> in times of crisis people are more stressed, and they come into the
area with more stress and more pressure and say we actually do have a mechanism to increase
our security, so that there is not violence against team members. my assumption would be it's
maybe happening also at home. >> reporter: doctor kevin josephs is already his team has
changed the screening for those who come in for emergency care, and not just for coronavirus
symptoms. >> every patient that gets registered as is asked a question, do you feel safe at
home. and, occasionally a patient will say no, and then that starts a different cascade of
evaluation. of that patient, the circumstances they are under the environment they are living in
but we do look at that question. >> reporter: catherine and mary say the rest of us need to be
paying attention to the risk of these symptoms as well. anyone of us can experience these
during stressful times, personally or in those we love. mary knows that. >> i began drinking
alcohol fairly early, and when i was 30 i got sir brenda 32, i started having symptoms of posttraumatic stress. >> reporter: taken care of your physical health, talking to safe people, and
even asking your doctor about medical support are always -- or always of coping right now.
remember this in stressful times, >> the greatest gift in my life has come in the crappy is looking
packages. >> was done is reporting. >> if you or someone you know is considering taking their
own life you can get immediate help for calling the national suicide prevention hotline. 1-800273-8255.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 24 • 12:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_74

police chief jami resch discussed the increase in the number of calls regarding threats of
suicide, specifically calls are up 41% now over the last year, and fire chief sara boone discussed
the critical role essential employees play at this time. >> i want you to know that we're all
making sacrifices together. times seem very, very difficult right now, but i want you to know
this, we will get through this crisis. we'll come out on the other side, and i believe we'll come
out a better community. pete: portland police will be enforcing governor brown's stay-at-home
order. officers will take an education first approach. from at least six feet away, officers will tell
the violators about the new order. if community members don't listen, they could get a ticket
as a last resort. it would be considered a misdemeanor if a business is not following the rules, it
will also receive a warning. officers will write a report and send it to any appropriate licensing
agency like the olcc. officers continue to respond to all calls for service in person when there's a

63

life safety issue or other identified need and by phone for all other calls. portland police also
want to remind people to not call 911 for non-emergency calls.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 24 • 6:33 PM

B_MAR_OREG_75

today we heard from portland police chief jamie rash said suicide calls are up during this
pandemic. portland police reporting they are seeing a 41 percent increase in suicide threats
compared to 2019. and an increase of 23 percent compared to ten days prior to the state of
emergency. >>> this statistic is concerning and there are resources available for those who are
struggling. i ask everyone to reach out by phone text or video chat to connect with your family
friends and neighbors. >> fox 12 camilla ortiz spoke with lines for our lives today for what they
are seeing. >> there are a lot of unknowns right now which understandably are making people
more anxious. those who struggle with anxiety or depression might be feeling extra lost or
isolated. the chief clinical officer for lines for life greg borders told me they are starting to see
some more calls from people experiencing from high amount of fear. he did not have
experience -- as he did not have numbers for me but said the statistics are alarming. borders
wanted to remind the public that lines for life is here for anyone who needs it and that has not
changed since the pandemic began. >> crisis lines are up and running. we are 24 - seven and
very well staffed. we have a lot of folks who are able to we are not for seeing much interruption
in service. >> at borders says it's a good idea for anyone concerned about family members or
friends to reach out to them and let them know that you are there for them >> if you or
someone you know is experiencing distress because of the pandemic feel free to call the suicide
prevention lifeline. the number is on your screen. it is 82738255. you can also text it 273 talk
283-9863.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 24 • 4:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_76

this morning city leaders laid out what they are doing to address the pandemic. we learned
some sobering news. emergency calls for suicide in portland have increased dramatically.
keaton thomas joins us with this story tonight. what did you find out about this? >> every single
case is different but one mental health professional i talked with tells me this pandemic is
impacting folks in almost every level you can imagine. people worried about their own health,
their finances and loved ones. ones. while city leaders describe the actions they are taking and
the actions they will take police chief jami resch shared this sobering statistic. police calls for
suicide attempts or threats are up 41% compared to this time in 2019. she says the calls are up
23% when compared to the days before portland declared an emergency. during this time the
chief's message was simple. check in on loved ones. >> we know people are struggleing and
we're trying to get out as many resources to folks as possible by encouraging contact by phone,
text, video chat. >> greg borders is chief clinical officers at lines for life. he says there's a lot of
uncertainty, a lot of questions and few answers. if you're feeling alone or isolated here's his
advice. >> reach out to your loved ones, reach out to anyone you think you can get support
from. if you don't think of anyone that could be helpful call us. we're here 24/7. we want to be
64

able to talk to you about any concerns that you're having. >> borders made it clear they have
the staff an are ready and willing to talk to anyone who needs help. >> thank you. if you're
feeling overwhelmed you certainly are not alone. there are people who can help you through
this difficult time. call the national lifeline. 1-8-273-talk or go to suicidepreventionlifeline.org to
chat with a mental health expert.
B_MAR_OREG_77

KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 24 • 6:05 PM

this pandemic is the likely cause for a surge in suicide threats and attempts. the portland police
bureau shared this news this morning. keaton thomas is in the newsroom. just how dramatic
was this increase? >> well, i'll show you the numbers. according to portland police chief jami
resch the number of calls is at 41% compared to this time last year up 23% compared to just a
few days prior to the city of portland declaring an emergency. those numbers are hard to
swallow. we already know death by suicide are a public health crisis. this is apparently making it
worse. >> it's clear this is a time of a lot of uncertainty and anxiety and fear. >> greg borders is
chief clinical officer at lines for life. he says this is something we have never seen before. >>
making people worried about their health, their finances, it's really impacting people on really
every level. >> portland police chief resch said the increase in calls related to suicide are
concerning but there are resources anyone can access. the police chief said now is the time to
reach out to loved ones, family, friends, neighbors, via text message. >> or give them a call or
talk to them on video chat. >> let them know you're there to listen and talk through fears or
concerns they might. >> he says they are expecting more people to call. he wanted everyone to
know they have plenty of staff who are willing and want to be able to help you or a loved one.
>> keaton, thank you. if you are feeling overwhelmed you're not alone. there are people to
help. call the national lifeline. or go to suicidepreventionlifeline.org to chat with a mental health
expert and see a list of tips to high pressure you cope.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 24 • 6:31 PM

B_MAR_OREG_78

reporter: officers will issue warnings to people not following social distancing. she also noted
that police calls on suicides are up 41% from the same time last year and up 23% from early
march. >> i ask everyone to reach out by phone, text, or video chat to connect with your family,
friends, and neighbors. if they are struggling, make sure they know how to access help which is
available through the mental health crisis intervention line or lines through life. >> reporter:
finally, portland's fire chief wanted to remind us if we are afraid we're not alone, but we're also
protected. >> when it comes to a viral spread, we're all susceptible to it. we really are in this
with everybody. we have the same fears. we have the same concerns. we have the same
uncertainties, but we show up. >> and here's a reminder, there is always help available. the
national suicide hotline has people working 24/7. that number is 1 (800) 273- 8255.

65

News Radio KEX
Mar 24 • 2:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_79

talking about the fact that we need to get the get the country back open because ve you the
virus could be even less deadly than the result of not giving the country open because people
might turn a suicide but weakened so showy distance ourselves and go to work and you have to
work hard you can clean your hands 5 times more than you used to you don't have to shake
hands anymore with people that might be something good coming out of this all I must tell you
as a politician it's a lot warmer when you walk into a crowd shaking a lot of people said you're
lucky I didn't I agree with you they love me I love them enough but it is a little bit colder but but
you'll be shaking hands for at least a while and in things will happen but we have to put the
country to work but he did lose a number people to the flu but you could lose more people by
putting a country into a massive recession or depression either donors or people you don't
have suicides by the thousands you have all sorts of things happen you have instability you
can't just come in and say Let's close up the United States of America the biggest the most
successful country in the world by far you know when I came in when I was elected and you
know this number China was going over Take us a mere 2019 wasn't even close so we went way
up and they didn't so suicide could be the reason to open everything back up because it's real I
will be yellow that's why doctors say get out take a walk outdoors just maintain your 6p Yeah
I'm not going to minimize it because we were all going stir-crazy might affect organized speak
with a doctor behavior in healthier were we're going to connect with us on the show today or
tomorrow.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 24 • 7:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_80

what really made me feel creeped out was a night before have escaped suicide I was talking
about a blood red zone strangeness in the skies that night and I said Wow those overnight
we're called to commit suicide that would be the night because of all the strangeness with the
comet it Perry he lien red blood moon and all the other strange anomalies were happening
back in the 19 nineties was 19 nineties 7 I think if the comet was passing over back to the idea
what Pelfrey said the Caesar about how people who are well known guy when a comet passes
over namely princes and Kings and Queens that was the year of the heaven's Gate suicide
remember 39 people commit suicide they thought they were going to take a ride on that
comment and then later after the commotion was settled Hale Bopp was slowly disappearing.
KONG-SEA
Mar 24 • 12:23 PM

B_MAR_WASH_47

on problem gambling and brad galvin, welcome both of you. this is one of those addiction
behavior problems. we don't really spend much time thinking about. why is that? it's under
attended too. >> it's very under attended to. that's something we work every day to do,
because it's very, very common. it's hidden and where something is widely accepted, the fact
that people might struggle with that is also highly stigmatized. there's incentive to not talk
66

about it. and we need to have more people talking about. >> people can do that and not have it
show up in the rest of their lives in terms of the public, anyway. >> interesting. >> and i think an
important point is when you look at what reflects what you're talking about, if you look at the
amount of money that's set aside nationally for drug and alcohol treatment. it's about 340
times as much asset aside for gambling addiction, even though there's only about four times
more prevalent than gambling addiction. there's a huge disconnect between the need for
services and the money set aside to provide those services. >> probably everybody has gone to
a blackjack table at some point of their life. what's the difference between gambling for fun,
you're in vegas for a weekend and problem gambling. >> someone can spend $10,000, but if
they're a millionaire, they go in and it doesn't have an negative effect on the social life or
finances, they're good to go and others may spend $20 and that is money for diapers and they
could have a problem with gambling. michael jordan could spend $1 million and he's good to
go. >> in terms of impact, what's the compulsion, what is the behavior, what causes people to
do it. >> it acts in the brain like substances do. it releases dopamine in the brain, do it again,
this is fun. do it again. and for some it's just entertainment, that's what it is, it's recreational,
social. that's great, for other people it can be a problem when their brain gets rewired. there
are brain changes. we can see the brain changes. we can observe the brain changes. through
treatment, they experience recovery in this and they start feeling more control and memory
and cognitive functions and learning and overall control of their life and well-being. >> it's the
addiction to shopping when you're excited about the purchase rather than want something
you're buying. >> if you're looking across the landscape of your life and signs for this and people
around up in an effort to help, what would you be looking for. >> the biggest one is time, it's
time away, because often, this can be a hidden addiction, you're not seeing the hang over,
there's nothing that may be obvious, in terms of a hangover. it's more subtle, that's why it gets
ignored nationally and locally. that's why it's important for us to be focusing on this. there are a
lot of aspects. >> it has financial impacts, relationship impacts that can affect sleep, mood,
anxiety, depression, it can have problems in every area of a person's life, just because they can
afford what they're spending, doesn't mean it can be a problem, it can cause problems,
emotionally and physically and relationally. >> it has the highest suicide rate of any disorder.
one out of 4 with the disorder attempt suicide. they don't think about it and have a problem.
they actually do the thing to kill themselves. if i'm sitting in one of my treatment groups and 12
of them, i know at least 3 of them have tried to kill themselves. that is the one most important
piece to say we need to take this seriously. people are dying because of this. >> we consider all
of this treatment to be life saving efforts. >> take it seriously. >> i've never known that, what's
different about this group. >> i opened it up to my groups. why do you think you this is. >> you
can use the money you have, but money that you don't have. it's not like a hangover, okay, i
went on a banger and i'm okay. you may have spent your kids college education fund. could you
be have thousands of dollars of credit card debt and the spouse or partner doesn't know what's
happening. >> that can happen until anybody knows about it and it's way too late and the
money is owed. >> the problem gambling awareness month is a good time to talk about this
clearly. what are some of the activities that happen during this month and tell me a bit about
treatment that might be available. >> well, problem gambling awareness month is a busy
month for us. we're doing it on a bigger scale than what we do all year long. there is national
gambling disorder gambling day, march 10th, and we have al list of locations across the state, it
67

makes gambling screens available and resource information. >> somebody can get a screening
and they can do that at. >> we can do it privately and with professionals and they can take one
at home and think about it and call the help line to get more information. every tuesday we're
doing a twitter chat. and each tuesday, a different taupe i can about problem gambling and
having experts come in where we can have discussion of the issues and getting them out. >>
what are the treatment options. >> really there's a until of them. there is inpatient treatment
available and evergreen council and problem gambling. there's a lot of outpatient treatment
that's available. >> a lot more outpatient. >> and a lot of tribes have their own programs, some
are tribal only and some offer services for tribal and nontribal members. they give a lot of
money towards addressing gambling addictions. >> thank you both, i learned a lot. >> i learned
a lot today. i appreciate. >> thank you so much. >> remember the Washington state problem
help line is available by call or text 24/7. that number is on your screen right now. we have
more information on new day's website. next week we'll be discussing the ways problem
gambling uniquely affects populations in our communities.
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 24 • 6:03 PM

B_MAR_OREG_81

a warning today from emergency medical medicine providers as we continue to adapt to this
coronavirus crisis. this is the kind of stress where they see family violence and suicide rates go
up. those who suffer the aftermath of these life altering events take a very long time to recover.
>> after several traumatic life events, mary langford feels lucky to be alive. >> i attempted
suicide several times, two times very dramatically. one time i drove myself 250 feet off a cliff in
malibu, california. another time i overdosed on 90 prozac and 27 clonopin which were both
psychiatric prescriptions. >> reporter: now, along with catherine, who specializes in holistic
healing and helping people overcome trauma and abuse, the two of them want us to know
change is happening around us due to the coronavirus, it can do damage far greater to us than
physical symptoms of a viral illness. >> traumas can happen at any time, they can be the big
traumas you hear about, the sexual abuse, the physical abuse. they can simply be financial
downturns. >> reporter: job and money loss along with family obligations, those are the front
lines of emergency medicine that can lead to everything from increased alcohol abuse to
suicide and domestic violence. >> in times of crisis, people are more stressed. they come to the
emergency department with more stress and pressure, we do have a mechanism to increase
our security so there is not violence against team members. my assumption it may be also
happening at home. >> reporter: dr. kevin joseph says his team has changed screen for those
that come in for emergency care and not just coronavirus symptoms. >> every patient that gets
registered gets asked a question, do you feel safe at home? occasionally, the patient will say no,
that start a different cascade of evaluation of that patient, the circumstances they are under,
the environment they are living in. we do look at that question. >> reporter: the rest of us need
to pay attention to the risk of these symptoms as well. anyone of us can experience these
during stressful times personally or in those we love. mary knows that. >> i began drinking
alcohol fairly early. when i was 30, i got sober at 32, i started having symptoms of posttraumatic
stress. >> reporter: taking care of your physical health, talking to sick people, even asking your
doctor about medical support are all ways of coping right now. mary says remember this in
68

stressful times. >> some of the greatest gifts in my life came at the crap used circumstances. >>
if you feel overwhelmed, you're not alone. there are professionals that can help you through
this difficult time. you can call the national lifeline at 1800-273-talk. you can go to the suicide
prevention lifeline.org to chat with a mental health expert and see a list of tips to help you
cope.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 24 • 12:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_82

portland city leaders just wrapped up a briefing on the latest efforts to avoid the spread of
covid 19 we just played that clip off the top of our newscast here from that conference
emergency responders want to remind you do not call 911, unless you are truly in an
emergency it may be best for you to call your regular doctor's office or the police nonemergency line first the chief says they've had an alarming rise to in the number of suicide calls
of 23% in the last days the last 10 days and up more than 40% from this time a year ago. she's
urging people to reach out to others when they need help with the common theme throughout
all of this conference is that we are all in this together. >> i want you to know that we're all
making sacrifices together. time seemed very very difficult right now, but i want you to know
this we will get through this crisis will come out on the other side and i believe will come out a
better community we'll get through it and we'll get through it together.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 24 • 4:30 PM

B_MAR_OREG_83

in clark county we heard from why i am my who said suicide calls are way up compared to last
year and increase of 23% compared to ten days prior this is concern and resources available for
those who are struggling and i asked everyone to much out by phone text or video chat to
conflict with your family friends and neighbors she join us now live well there are a lot of in
knowns now which is making alo of people and house so those who are already struggle with
anxiety or depression might be feeling par tk also or isolated the chief clinical officer for line for
life told me they are starting to see some more calls from people experience,ing high amounts
of fear. he didn't have. about for me but but said those sta is tks are alarming and board wants
to remind public that is here for anyone needs it and that has not changed since the pan dmic
pe gan they are up and running and we are 24-and very well staffed and we guilty a lot of folks
who are able to work reright now so we renot for seeing much interrupt in service borders said
it is a good idea to for ann one consider are concerned about family members or friends to
reach out to theming now and let them know are them.
KATU-POR (ABC)
US Mar 24 • 5:25 PM

B_MAR_OREG_84

"calls for suicide attempts or suicide >> call for suicide attempts or threats with or without a
weapon are up 41% from this time in 2019. they are up 23% from the ten days prior to the state
of emergency. >> some startling information from the portland police chief as people struggle
69

with stress and anxiety brought on by the coronavirus. emergency calls for suicide in portland
have increased dramatically. so what are some of the signs the rest of us should be looking for?
sinclair medical reporter liz bonis has more. >> mary langford says she feels lucky to be alive. >>
i attempted suicide several time. >> now with katherine who helps people overcome trauma
and abuse the two of them want us to know the changes happening around us due to the
coronavirus can do damage that is far greater to us than the physical symptoms of a viral
illness. >> traumas can happen at any time. they can be the big traumas that you hear about,
the sexual abuse, physical abuse. but they can simply be financial downturns. >> job and money
loss along with family obligations, those on the front lines of emergency medicine say can lead
to everything from increased alcohol abuse to suicide and domestic violence. >> in times of
crisis people are more stressed. they come into the emergency department with more stress,
more pressure and so we actually do have a mechanism to increase our security so that there
isn't violence against team members. my assumption would be maybe happening also at home.
>> dr. kevin jo received says already his team a change add screening for those who come in for
emergency care, not just for coronavirus symptoms. >> every patient that gets registered is
asked the question do you feel safe at home. occasionally a patient will say no. then it starts a
different cascade of evaluation of that patient, the circumstances they are under, the
environment they are living in but we do look at that. >> they say the rest of us need to pay
attention to the risk of these symptoms as well. any one of us can experience these during
stressful times personally or in those we love. mary knows that. >> i began drinking alcohol
fairly early and when i was 30 i got sober and at 32 i started having symptoms of posttraumatic
stress. >> taking care of your physical health, talking to safe people, asking your doctor about
medical support are all ways of coping now. mary says remember this in stressful times. >>
some of the greatest gifts in my life have come in the crappiest looking packages. >> if you're
feeling overwhelmed there are people who can help. call the national lifeline. or go to suicide
prevention lifeline.org.
News Radio KEX
Mar 24 • 2:48 PM

B_MAR_OREG_85

talking about the fact that we need to get the get the country back open because ve you the
virus could be even less deadly than the result of not giving the country open because people
might turn a suicide but weakened so showy distance ourselves and go to work and you have to
work hard you can clean your hands 5 times more than you used to you don't have to shake
hands anymore with people that might be something good coming out of this all I must tell you
as a politician it's a lot warmer when you walk into a crowd shaking a lot of people said you're
lucky I didn't I agree with you they love me I love them enough but but it is a little bit colder but
but you'll be shaking hands for at least a while and in things will happen but we have to put the
country to work but he did lose a number people to the flu but you could lose more people by
putting a country into a massive recession or depression either donors or people you don't
have suicides by the thousands you have all sorts of things happen you have instability you
can't just come in and say Let's close up the United States of America the biggest the most
successful country in the world by far you know when I came in when I was elected and you
know this number China was going over Take us a mere 2019 wasn't even close so we went way
70

up and they didn't so suicide could be the reason to open everything back up because it's real I
will be yellow yellow that's why doctors say get out take a walk outdoors just maintain your 6p
Yeah I'm not going to minimize it because we were all going stir-crazy might affect organized
speak with a doctor behavior in healthier were we're going to connect with us on the show
today or tomorrow to happen but we'll talk about to it's very topic something we should all put
on the table and you talked about this earlier.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 24 • 5:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_86

Portland's police chief says officers will issue warnings for people not following social distancing
and eventually we will give out citations if necessary. she noted the police calls on suicide are
up 41% from the same time last year and up 23% from early march. >> i asked everyone to
reach out by phone, text and video chat to connect with friends, family and neighbors. if they
are struggling make sure they know how to access help which is available through the mental
health crisis intervention line or lines through life.
KVAL (CBS)
Mar 25 • 9:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_87

a warning from emergency medicine providers, this is the kind of stress where they often see
family violence and suicide rates go up. those who have suffered the aftermath of these life
altering events take a long time to recover. >> after several dramatic life events, mary langford
said she feels lucky to be alive. >> i attempted suicide several times, one time i drove myself to
under 50 feet off a cliff in malibu california, and another time i overdosed on 90 prozac and 27
klonopin which were both psychiatric prescriptions.
KTVZ (NBC)
Mar 25 • 5:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_88

everyone knows getting outside is an important step for your mental health, but with the
recent stay at home order it limits where people can go and what they can do. bend family
therapy implemented social distancing last week. so now all of their original face to face
meetings are done virtually. "to be honest with you i was really against tele video in the
beginning, but it's actually been a lot better and our clients are reporting a lot more helpful
than they thought it would be." kristin james a licensed marriage and family therapist says
patient numbers at bend family therapy have dropped off about 3o percent. she says they used
to get 15 to 25 calls a day and now they are not getting any. but james says the clients she is
seeing have all brought up one thing. the coronavirus. "it comes up with almost every client and
every session right now." she added some of her clients have had increased stress, fear and
some have even reported minor insomnia due to the pandemic. james suggests people take up
gardening, outdoor yoga or free guided meditations that you can find on youtube to try and
stay busy at home. in bend jordan williams newschannel 21. ### if you, or anyone you know has
had suicidal thoughts, head to k-t-v-z dot com and click "let's talk" for help.
71

KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 24 • 11:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_89

welcome to kgw news at 11:00. before we dive into tonight's coverage i do want to share a
quick message, life has fundamentally changed for all of us during this pandemic. we want you
to know that we are here for you. we are here to answer your questions. if we do not know the
answers that we will try hard to get them. and direct you to resources that you need. i
encourage you to reach out to people that you know. those who may be isolated and alone. we
need each other now more than ever. it is a sentiment that is echoed today. they join together
to talk about the strategy for handling the coronavirus crisis. one of the big issues was the
growing mental health toll of the pandemic is taking. police say they have noticed a spike in
suicide related calls. >> i ask everyone to be taught by phone, text or video chat to connect with
your family, friends and neighbors. if they are struggling to make sure they know how to access
help. which is available to the mental health crisis intervention line or lines for life. >> on that
note a reminder there is always help available. the national suicide helpline has people working
24/7. that number is 1-800-273-8255.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 25 • 6:40 PM

B_MAR_WASH_48

an unexplained death has once again shaken the Washington state Cougars football family
Pullman Police say a friend last night discovered 22 year-old bryce Beekman in his residence not
breathing no apparent signs of foul play or suicide Beekman was a redshirt senior defensive
back from louisiana the WSU head coach Nick role eviction formed a team last night it's been
just over two years since the suicide death of Cougars quarterback Tyler headlines speak sports
updates tenant 40 after the hour bill.
KTVL (CBS)
Mar 25 • 6:04 PM

B_MAR_OREG_90

one local mental health service tells news 10 social distancing and staying at home due to
covid-19 is having a huge impact on individuals' mental health. carsyn currier his life from her
home tonight. she spoke to compass house today about how they're making sure their
members have someone to talk to now that they can no longer have meetings in person. >>
reporter: that's right. i'm on my back porch right now. as you know, many of us at ktvl are
working at home due to social distancing and covid-19. today, i spoke to compass house, they
say due to the isolation and lack of human contact, a lot of people feel alone right now. now,
currently, they are doing meetings through phone calls and zoom in order to make sure
everyone feels like they have someone to talk to. >> we had to be innovative, how to make sure
our most vulnerable population is still getting the support they need. >> elizabeth hazlewood,
executive director at compass house, says shutting their doors to covid-19 was something she
knew what affect so many people. that is when they turned digital. >> we currently hold 10
meetings a day members can engage in, just like video or they can call in if they don't have
access to video. on top of that, our staff makes on average 100 calls a day. >> reporter: some
72

members have told hazlewood the corunna virus crisis has brought them back to a dark place in
their life and they are really struggling. >> they don't know how to be without connection. >>
reporter: the organization says it is normal and expected for people to feel isolated and alone
during this time. they say we have to reach out to our loved ones and realize everything will be
okay. >> if you are worried about a loved one, and you are worried about them feeling
depressed and you are concerned about suicide, it is okay to ask if you're going to harm
yourself, moving forward with that conversation because at these moments, that is one of the
things we are fearful of. >> reporter: compass house says face-to-face interaction, whether that
be just resume or a phone call to check in is something everyone needs right now. if you or
someone you know is interested in mental health resources, you can had to the story on
ktvl.com. with your connection, carsyn currier with news 10.
KVAL (CBS)
Mar 25 • 6:04 PM

B_MAR_OREG_91

hospital officials also want people to know that i don't want the pandemic to keep them from
seeking medical care. but, they do want to keep you -- some things in mind before you rush into
an emergency room. dr. robin version says if someone is having a life- threatening emergency,
that's when you call 911 as usual. however, when it comes to non- life-threatening situations
such as a cough, fever, or physical injury, they ask you to call before going to the e.r. this helps
staff directed to the proper place to receive medical care and allows them to reduce the risk of
exposure to their patients. they've also increased efforts to get nurses to give medical advice
over the phone. they can help determine our next step in care. >>> mental health services is
experiencing more phone calls as people remain concerned during these unprecedented times.
cassondra joining us live in the studio right now. cassondra, you have some very unfortunate
news to report on tonight. >> reporter: sean, they say two teenagers decided to take their own
lives this past month. to be clear, we don't know the reasons for these suicides. additionally,
the center is experiencing an uptick in calls from people who have lost their jobs. it is important
to know that help is out there, even during the governor's social distancing mandate the center
is offering their support centers services virtually. marion stickler says don't lose hope. there
are several things we can do to reduce anxiety. >> this is something new, we are all going
through something that is unique, one-of-a-kind, never experienced before. that fear can really
lead to anxiety. if we stay present in the moment and we really focus on being self aware, we
focus on our family, enjoy one another. >> reporter: stickler says the best way to maintain a
positive attitude is to stay active, be intentional, and present in the moment. learn a new skill
or teacher children new skills. >> be productive because being productive gives you that sense
of accomplishment and satisfaction. and be vigilant. not just about other people, but about
one's self. if we are self-aware we can test ourselves as we get into these type of downward
spirals. >> if you see changes of behavior and your loved ones or signs that they need additional
help, see how they are doing. the center in the meantime is hosting virtual arts and crafts
activities for anyone who wants to join. you do not need to have insurance to utilize the
center's resources. >> thanks, cassondra. if you know someone who needs professional help,
you can contact the center and there are also additional local resources for anyone looking for
support during this time. that includes prevention lane.org, the national suicide prevention
73

lifeline is also available 24/7. 800/273/8455. you can find these resources on our website on
kval.com.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 25 • 2:38 PM

B_MAR_WASH_49

an unexplained death has once again shaken the Washington state Cougars football family
Pullman Police say a friend last night discovered 22 year-old bryce big men in his residence not
breathing no apparent signs of foul play or suicide Beekman was a redshirt senior defensive
back from louisiana new WSU head coach Nick role eviction formed a team last night it's been
just over two years since the suicide death of Cougars quarterback Tyler.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Mar 25 • 7:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_50

police are working to determine the identity of a man whose body was found near Western
Washington University earlier this month the University says the man in his 20s was found
March 5th in a wooded area North of Buchanan towers residence Hall the medical examiner
has determined the cause of death to be a suicide
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Mar 25 • 8:10 PM

B_MAR_WASH_51

Whitman County coroner looking into the cause of death for 22-year-old Washington state
Cougars football player bryce Beekman a friend last night discover the Louisiana native not
breathing in his residence Pullman Police initially ruled out suicide or foul play and they don't
think it's corrode virus related.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Mar 25 • 7:15 AM

B_MAR_OREG_92

xrlts say supporting yourself is even more important now than ever. they suggest taking time to
unwind and doing activities you enjoy. >> prior to this, america was really going through an
mental health crisis. anxiety, depression at a all-time high, and suicide rates are up. and this
elevates that. >> reporter: eating healthy, exercising regularly, and getting plenty of sleep is
key, and if you find the stress of all of this is getting in the way of your activities for several
days, call your healthcare provider. >> if you or someone you know is experiencing distress, feel
free to call the suicide prevention lifeline. the number is on your screen right now. you can also
text.

74

Fox 12 Plus
Mar 25 • 12:29 AM

B_MAR_OREG_93

portland police chief jami resch also relayed some grim numbers at this morning's briefing from
the city. she says calls involving suicide attempts or suicide threats -- with or without a weapon
-- are up 41 percent from 20-19... and 23 percent from just ten days before the state of
emergency. (("this statistic is concerning and there are resources for those who are struggling. i
ask everyone to reach out by text, phone or video chat to family, friends and neighbors. if
they e struggling, let them know there help which is available through the mental health crisis
intervention line. or lines for life."))
News Radio KEX
Mar 25 • 7:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_94

Portland police are saying jump in calls involving suicide or suicide attempts suicide calls are up
23% sense the state of emergency began I mean people were worried about how it's making
people worried about their finances this stage and people hates things they are looking for
unity and its chief clinical officer Greg borders with Blinds for life suggest checking I'm worried
loved ones friends and neighbors to let them know you are willing to listen.
KTVZ (NBC)
Mar 25 • 6:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_95

experts say with people experiencing job loss and isolation, suicide rates across the country
could rise. jordan williams spoke with the local suicide prevention group, " lines for life" about
what they're hearing. ### crisis lines across the nation have seen an increase in calls and they
all have one thing in common. the coronavirus. higher levels of anxiety, stress and
unemployment has experts worried that we could see a rise in suicides across the nation. here
in oregon, suicide became the leading cause of death among eople aged 10 to 24 in 2018. on
avergae two people die a day in oregon by suicide. lines for life is a call center based in portalnd
trying to stop suicides in oregon. greg borders, the chief cliinical officer there says its too early
to tell if their call volume has increased but says the coronavirus has certainly had an impact.
"i'd say almost every call that comes in someone is either talking about it or it's in the
background of what they are talking about or what their concern is." lines for life call
counselors are now working from home. so they are practicing phyisical distancing by taking a
company phone home. "there are definitely challenges of working from home. just like we tell
that folks that are calling the lines we are also telling our own staff to make sure you take
breaks make sure you go outside." borders is expecting an increase in calls similar to the
increase lines for life saw in 2008 during the financial crisis. he's also expecting an increase in
first time callers. borders stressed even with social distancing, it's still important to have a social
life during this pandemic. so borders calls it physical distancing. he suggests calling a friend or
family member to keep that social contact. in bend jordan williams newshcannel 21. ### if you,
or anyone you know has had suicidal thoughts, head to k-t-v-z dot com and click "let's talk" for
help.
75

KPLU-FM (Radio)
Mar 25 • 6:41 PM

B_MAR_WASH_52

a lot has happened since October have to change your mind the research has been is really
taking off their shirts several trial giving suicide into depressed patients both in Europe and
here is working started I'm eating disorders which is very exciting it's it's the hardest psychiatric
condition to treat Eat there is there's a basic science going on here I'm trying to figure out what
House like those working mind and a lot of really smart scientists are now devoting himself to
psychedelic research and some very excited about that Meanwhile we're moving to approval
the FDA and the supervising these trials of of suicide than for depression and for alcoholism.
KFXO (FOX)
Mar 25 • 4:00 PM

B_MAR_OREG_96

according to president donald trump, suicide rates across the country could increase because of
th coronaviru suicide is the leading cause of death among oregonians age 10 to 24 jordan
williams spoke with portland based suicide prevention group "lifeline lines for life", a has more
## crisis lines across the nation have seen an increase in calls and they all have on thing in
common. the coronavirus. higher levels of anxiety stress an unemployment has experts worried
that we could see a rise in suicides across th nation. here in oregon, suicide became the leading
cause of death among eop aged 10 to 24 in 2018. on avergae two people die a day in oregon by
suicide. lines for life is a call center based in portalnd trying to stop suicides oregon.
KOBI
Mar 25 • 6:47 PM

B_MAR_OREG_97

coronavirus is causing a lot of fear and anxiety... for all of us... and it's having a big impact on
peoples mental health. according to the oregonian... portland police are seeing an increase in
911 calls involving suicide attempts or threats. they say between march 12th and 22nd...the
number of calls rose by 23%. dwight holton who runs help hotline 'lines for life'... says they
haven't seen an increase in calls... but are anticipating that will change. "certainly historically
when we've had major economical downturns its been accompanied by increases in volume
and i also think and this is a good thing- people are more comfortable talking about their
anxiety and their stressers so our hope is that people will reach out." jackson county mental
health says they haven't seen an increase in numbers. holton says there are a few things you
can do help ease your stress... fear.. and anxiety. make sure you're staying connected with
other people. call or video chat your friends, family or people you haven't talked to in awhile.
also make sure you're getting outdoors. he says getting some fresh air and exercise will help
your mental state. and if you need to talk to someone... you can head to our website... kobi 5
dot com and click the 'in this together' tab for a list of resources. if you or someone you know is
struggling with thoughts of suicide... know that you are not alone. there is help. you can call the
national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be
connected to a crisis counselor. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of
suicide... there is help available. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-80076

273-8255. you can also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor.preying on
fears surrounding this pandemic.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 25 • 6:07 AM

B_MAR_OREG_98

stay-at-home order is already having an effect on mental health. portland police are urging you
to check in on your family and friends as they see a surge in suicide related calls. in fact calls are
up 41 percent compared to this time last year. >> making people worry about their health, it's
making people worry about their finances, it's making people cancel things they were looking
forward to doing so it's really impacts people on every level. >>> he says now's the time to
reach out whether by phone, text, or video chat and remember even though it may feel like i
would, you're not alone. you're looking at the number for the national suicide hot line, 1-800-273-8255. we also have an entire list of resources on our website, katu.com.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Mar 25 • 7:42 PM

B_MAR_WASH_53

a lot has happened since October have to change your mind the research has been is really
taking off there are several trial giving suicide into depressed patients both in Europe and here
his work getting started I'm eating disorders which is very exciting it's it's the hardest
psychiatric condition to treat them there is the worst basic science going on trying to figure out
what House second dose work in the mine and a lot of really smart scientists are now devoting
himself to psychedelic research and some very excited about that Meanwhile moving to
approval the FDA the supervising these trials of of suicide than for depression and for
alcoholism and nerd trial of MDMA or ecstasy and for posttraumatic stress and within a few
years it's very likely that both for those substances or will be medicines that a doctor could
prescribe that's quite remarkable it's it's moving along faster than I would have guessed.
KMTR (NBC)
Mar 25 • 5:04 PM

B_MAR_OREG_99

hospitals are pushing for more people to be mindful before running to the emergency room
during the coronavirus pandemic. peace health said if you are having a life-threatening
emergency call 911. when it comes to non-life-3 threatening situations like a cough, fever , or
physical injury ask you to call before going to the emergency room. 3 this helps staff directly to
the proper place to receive medical care and helps reduce exposure to their patients. peace
health has increased their phone triage efforts. you can get advice over the phone that will help
you determine your next step. >>> local mental health services are seen people more stressed.
they said they are experiencing an uptick in calls. here's more on that story from kassandra
gutierrez. >> reporter: in the last month two teenagers have taken their lives. 3 we do not know
the reasons for the suicides. 3 but to help prevent suicides the center continues to provide
services online during the global pandemic. 3 the nonprofit is available to 3 help and direct
people to where they can get help. a professional counselor tells us ways to stay positive. she
77

said just staying active and learning a new skill. >> be present in the moment. 3 when we are
present we cannot 3 be worried about the future. we can look around and choose things
around us. we can see them as a leak and negative or we can choose to see the positive. but
they seen it uptick in 3 calls from those unemployed. there are several local services for anyone
looking for support including the national suicide prevention lifeline that is available 24 seven.
and the number is available on the screen. for a list of local services you can check out our web
page.nbc16.com
News Radio KEX
Mar 25 • 8:54 AM

B_MAR_OREG_100

Here's a simple fact that most people seem to forget whenever the unemployment rate goes up
the mail particularly suicide rate goes up you can have a whole discussion about why this is
mostly problem male suicide above for the simple fact is that the if the unemployment rate
goes up to 10% or higher people will die you can observe this quite simply with the opioid
epidemic in the parts of the country where the local economy imploded dude jobs getting
Ellsworth and factories shut down we have what are called dad's of despair we talk about this a
lot Besides suicide jeb drug overdoses alcohol poisoning people simply losing the will wake up
in the morning often happening to young an otherwise healthy young people even those who
don't die can suffer from depression falling or chronic state numbness with non-fatal drug
abuse.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 25 • 6:32 AM

B_MAR_OREG_101

as the number of coronavirus cases grows locally, leaders from the city of portland are working
on a plan to help businesses and healthcare providers and families. they also say the concern
for them is what this pandemic is doing to people's mental health. >> reporter: city leaders
gathered at a downtown fire station with plenty of room for social distancing to send a message
to the public. >> i want you to know that as mayor i know everybody is being impacted in many
cases significantly by this crisis. i want you to know we are all making sacrifices together. time it
seems difficult but i want you to know this, we will get through this crisis. we will come out on
the other side and i believe we will come out a better community. >> reporter: the police chief
of portland said officers will issue warnings to people not following social distancing that will
eventually give out citations if necessary. she also noted that calls on suicides are up 41% from
the same time last year. and up 23% from early march. >> i ask everyone to reach up iphone,
text or video chat to connect with your family, friends and neighbors. if they are struggling
make sure they know how to access help which is available to the mental health crisis
intervention line. >> reporter: the fire chief wanted to remind us that if we are afraid we are
not alone. we are also protected. >> when it comes to a viral spread, we are all susceptible to a.
so we really are in this with everybody. we have the same fears, we have the same concerns,
we have the same uncertainties. but we show up. >> we do want to remind you that there is
always help available. the national suicide hotline has people working there 24/7. that number
is one 800 273-8255
78

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Mar 25 • 4:00 PM

B_MAR_WASH_54

Washington State patrol is mourning the loss of trooper justin Schafer who was hit and killed by
a fleeing suspect on i5 near show Haley's yesterday the patrol says Schafer was putting down a
spike strip when he was hit by the suspect's pickup truck police are working to determine the
identity of a man whose body was found near Western Washington University earlier this
month the University says the man in his 20s was found March 5th in a wooded area North of
the buchanan towers residence hall the Whatcom County medical examiner has determined
the cause of death to be a suicide.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Mar 26 • 8:30 AM

B_MAR_WASH_55

police are working to determine the identity of the man whose body was found near Western
Washington University earlier this month cage my more Murphy has detailed the University
says the man in his 20s was found around two p.m. on March 5th in a wooded area North of
the the can towers residence hall which is on the South end of the belly him campus near
buildings Donald Parkway he's described as a caucasian male 6 foot 3 inches tall and weighing
190 pounds the Walker County medical examiner has determined the cause of death to be a
suicide and university officials do not believe he was a current Western student
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Mar 25 • 9:00 AM

B_MAR_WASH_56

police is working to determine the identity of a man whose body was found near Western
Washington University earlier this month the University says the man in his 20s was found
March 5th in a wooded area North of Buchanan towers residence Hall the medical examiner
has determined the cause of death to be a suicide.
News Radio KEX
Mar 27 • 10:10 PM

B_MAR_OREG_102

more than 300 people died in a further 1000 of falling ill in iran after consuming methanol in
the belief that it would protect them against the Corona virus according to local media although
the majority of the people who have depression did not die by suicide having major depression
does increased suicide risk compared to people without depression the risk of death by suicide
may in part be related to the severity of the depression and right now lots of people are
depressed with this situation they're trapped in their homes are under lock down Let's check in
with resident psychiatrist Dr Peter Ragan Peter what we do about the situation well you know
I'm just a modelling on that wonderful career were in contention and I think it's going to work
we'll see what kind million I think we can add to it you know could give strength to the people
are feeling the Press and he prided in ways that could make him want to harm themselves I can
I like to address them in Joergen and say that I worked with people whole suicide so I'm tired
79

career decades and decades and decades and dn't thing about suicide that is so incredible bow
and everything and if you don't in that moment kill yourself if you just don't do it you can go on
to have a life so much better than you ever imagine absolutely Yeah you may get the change
some of your look you may have to put more faith and and yourself for other people you may
have that and the side you need to take better care of yourself financial year it this time Chris
shore up your family connection whatever thing you need to do to make a meaningful life and
especially men men by a huge number joy up predominantly of the people who harm them so
out there Marshall was signed with women I think much more so and especially around
economics because it's our right and everybody out there is a lot of work right now I mean
more more depressed can you get with something like that well-paying work and I know people
are so small businesses a crate cashing so that and I just had to work with their employers and
employees out of work for her Real thing I remember I got country is feeling it we can be
stronger than ever Yeah he would cry absolutely Peter thank you so much your advice is always
welcome on this program and I think it will help a lot of people and folks it will get better.
KAPP (ABC)
Mar 27 • 5:12 PM

B_MAR_WASH_57

with millions of Americans staying home, local psychiatrists are concerned about what this
isolation could do to those already at risk for suicide. according to the world health organization
many suicides happen impulsively in moments of crisis. kapp-kvew's dru miller spoke to a local
psychiatrist to learn what can be done for those struggling. "no one should be completely left
alone that's why three rivers therapy like many mental health clinics are now using a phone
calls instead of face to face interactions. that's why we're still open you know ethically and
morally we feel like we have responsibility to be here for our people in need and again while
we're all being told that we need to isolate somebody's got to be there on the other end of the
line. cook says now is the time for more communication even if it's done digitally, we know that
when it comes to mental health disorders specifically depression and anything along the
spectrum of depression, isolation is not good isolation is not good for healthy people. she also
recommends mediation. either do your best to clear your mind or focus hard on something
positive that will happen in the future. above all of you need help reach out to a professional.
KOBI
Mar 26 • 6:04 AM

B_MAR_OREG_103

there's no question coronavirus is causing a lot of fear and anxiety... for all of us... that's also
having a big impact on our mental health. according to the oregonian... portland police are
seeing an increase in 911 calls involving suicide attempts or threats. they say between march
12th and 22nd...the number of calls rose by 23-percent. jackson county mental health says they
haven't seen an increase in numbers... but dwight holton who runs help hotline 'lines for life'...
says they are anticipating that will change. "certainly historically when we've had major
economical downturns its been accompanied by increases in volume and i also think and this is
a good thing- people are more comfortable talking about their anxiety and their stressers so our
hope is that people will reach out." holton says there are a few things you can do help ease
80

your stress... fear.. and anxiety. make sure you're staying connected with other people. call or
video chat your friends, family or people you haven't talked to in awhile. also make sure you're
getting outdoors... he says getting some fresh air and exercise will help your mental state. if you
or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... know that you are not alone.
there is help. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. you can
also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor. you can head to our website...
kobi 5 dot com and click the 'in this together' tab for a list of resources.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 28 • 7:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_104

the American Foundation for suicide Prevention remind you to care for your mental health in
the face of uncertainty focus on what's in your control versus what is not do what helps you
feel a sense of safety remind yourself to stay in the present stay connected with others reach
the crisis text line by texting TV Al cade to 7 4 won 7 4 won or call the National suicide
Prevention lifeline at one 802 to 7 3 talk we're in this together and help is always available.
KOBI
Mar 25 • 11:20 PM

B_MAR_OREG_105

there's no question coronavirus is causing a lot of fear and anxiety... for all of us... and it's
having a big impact on peoples mental health. according to the oregonian... portland police are
seeing an increase in 911 calls involving suicide attempts or threats. they say between march
12th and 22nd...the number of calls rose by 23-percent. jackson county mental health says they
haven't seen an increase in numbers... but dwight holton who runs help hotline 'lines for life'...
says they are anticipating that will change. "certainly historically when we've had major
economical downturns its been accompanied by increases in volume and i also think and this is
a good thing- people are more comfortable talking about their anxiety and their stressers so our
hope is that people will reach out." holton says there are a few things you can do help ease
your stress... fear.. and anxiety. make sure you're staying connected with other people. call or
video chat your friends, family or people you haven't talked to in awhile. also make sure you're
getting outdoors... he says getting some fresh air and exercise will help your mental state. if you
or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide... know that you are not alone.
there is help. you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. you can
also text 741-741 any time to be connected to a crisis counselor. you can head to our website...
kobi 5 dot com
KVAL (CBS)
Mar 26 • 9:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_106

more people are stressed trying to cope with the coronavirus pandemic, eugene nonprofit the
ill run center experiencing an uptick in calls. to help the center it continues to provide services
online. will run centers professional counselor marian stiegler encourages everybody to stay
positive. cg suggesting active in learning new skills to take your mind off of things. >>> several
81

local services for anybody looking for support including prevention lane, the national suicide
prevention lifeline is also available 24 seven. for a list of more resources, you can check out our
website, kval.com.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 27 • 8:05 AM

B_MAR_OREG_107

earlier this week Police chief said that the 9.1 calls related to suicide have soared since the
emergency declaration our reporter Mike Turner got some advice from a psychologist about
fear and anxiety and colleges are getting calls from people were Fed up with the isolation and
fear from the ordered to stay home probably behavior health chief Robert Anderson chose
there are things you can do to limit the amount of information taken in a day if all we're hearing
is all coordinated all about all of the time that's really really really stressful and for our families
that have kids at home those kids can feel that preston so our kids are watching how we're
responding to this crisis and that will help guide how they respond don't be afraid to talk to
your kids about this she recommends calling Blinds for life hotline if you need someone to talk
to
KMVU (FOX)
Mar 27 • 11:26 PM

B_MAR_OREG_108

jesse: welcome back. we are going to take a break from our coverage of the coronavirus just for
a moment as we turn now to cases of murder for hire. ordered on the dark web. but can you
really find a hit man online customer today, nancy grace is pulling back the veil involving chilling
suspects who have turned to the dangerous steps of cyberspace. >> if the killer can't get a hit
on dark web, they will find a way. >> jesse: in 2016, over minnesota church elder, stephen
allwine, allegedly scoured the dark web for a hit man willing to kill his wife, amy. he reportedly
paid $6,000 in bitcoins to the dark web's science. but he was reportedly scammed, and the
assassination was never carried out. >> many of these online dark web hit man websites are
really just scams to get you money, and who are you going to call? the police? oh, i was trying
to kill my wife wife? >> jesse: taking matters into his own hands, allwine shot his wife in the
head and tried to stage it to look like a suicide. >> there's blood all over. >> when cops looked
at the scene, the blood markings all over the room indicated this was not a suicide. >> jesse:
allwine was sentenced to life behind bars. in chicago, when nurse tina jones affair soured, she
ordered a hit on her former lover's wife over the dark web. she reportedly paid $12,000 in
bitcoins to the sicilian hit man international network, but that had never happened. >> this
wasn't an impulse. this was a very well thought out plan. it didn't work. >> jesse: jones pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to 12 years in prison.
AM 860
Mar 28 • 5:50 PM

B_MAR_OREG_109

before we go to break I want to talk briefly about something that is definitely happening out
there that is the increase in this time of uncertainty in a crisis engine snow we will get through
82

this everything will get better but if you or someone you know struggling with thoughts of
suicide you're not alone there is hope there is help the National suicide Prevention lifeline is
available 24 hours a day 7 days a week it's free confidential across the U.S. you can call one
802.3 8 to 5 5 or if you prefer chatter online that's an option to on their websites suicide
Prevention lifeline got word again that's one 802.3 to 5 5 suicide Prevention lifeline dot org
there's somebody there 24 7.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Mar 26 • 12:40 PM

B_MAR_WASH_58

he was to eat or fated to be taken seriously the court was going to be a serious outbreak but
the way they continue and Were reporting it was literally cause think everybody I was coming
in contact with to believe that they were going to die the film that the level of anxiety that
they've created in this country have been so far polls so far from the truth where 80% of us are
gonna be fine if we get it and we don't even know yet how what percentage are going to get it's
and Here's what I'm worried about and I've talked about this a lot on other issues were talking
with Dr drew pinsky by the way and and Dr drew one of the things that I worry about gravely is
I think that we've got a lot of forces that want to use a motion to drive agendas and a perfect
example his gun control where we have turned our children public schools are about the safest
place a child can be in America and yet we have convinced them that they're going to be
slaughtered in a blood bath and now we have more kids to have anxiety and committing suicide
than ever before and I would say that the anxiety is worse then the the so-called original
problem and I'm afraid of that here too that whatever fix we are doing for the economy for
word cold didn't maintain that if it does destroys the economy for my children for might yet to
be unborn grandchildren that if we go back to depression times we have people who have lost
their business and cannot provide for their family that we might have more people commit
suicide.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 26 • 11:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_110

reporter: the isolation caused by social distancing is tough for everyone. i heard from some
seniors who mention how hard it is to be away from family members like grandkids. so i talked
with an expert about how to make it a little easier. >> social distancing may be needed for our
immediate physical health, but it is not great for long-term health. >> the missing of physical
contact is starting to get to people. and we know people need physical contact. that's
something that helps keep us healthy. >> i asked doctor rob -- dr. robin henderson about
comments like this one on facebook. "the hardest part about this is not being able to be around
our family and 19 grandchildren." video chat no matter how you do it is a valuable resource and
they suggest structure to it. >> grandparents have a unique opportunity to become storytelling
tellers. schedule a regular library time as home schooling and have the grandparents read a
story. >> and forethought those not -- for those not used to technology regular voice contact is
vital. >> if they don't have the ability to skype or face -- face time or do like we are doing right
now pick up the phone and talk to them and check on them and ask how they are. >> they say
83

everyone, even young people, they are starting to feel the effect of social isolation. how well
people deal with it is dependent on the individual person. live in the newsroom, lincoln graves,
katu news. >> a reminder that if you are feeling overwhelmed, you are not alone. there are
people who can help you through this tough time. call the national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk or
go to suicide prevention lifeline.org to chat with a mental health expert and you can see a list of
tips to help you cope as well.
Portland's CW
Mar 27 • 8:21 AM

B_MAR_OREG_111

New this morning, a trailer for a documentary on the hart family murder suicide is out nearly 2
years ago. jen and sarah hart drove their suv off a northern california cliff with their 6 adopted
kids inside. everyone from the clark county family was found dead, except for 15-year-old
davante whose body was never recovered. according to e e news the documentary called a
thread of deceit will be released digitally on april 7th.
AM 860
Mar 27 • 9:48 PM

B_MAR_OREG_112

so we speak to be the public health impact of wrecking people financially people feeling like
they wrecked financially going back to some studies were done after the great recession of
2008 numbers at Oxford look at suicide data before and after the recession they found more
than 10000 quote unquote economics suicides associate with the recession across U.S. Canada
and Europe the British medical Journal the Landsat estimated the U.S. suffered 4750 excess
suicide deaths after the 2008 recession steve more and Rob are now writing in the Hill going
through this as well looking at the medical research here for every 1% rise in unemployment
you get one additional suicide for every 100000 people knew roughly speaking here this is again
they did that number crunching and talk about to the increase in its biggest stress which
increases the likelihood of a heart attack particularly people that are older and so on and so
forth so this idea that you can wreck people economically and the only cost you're posing as an
economic one that's not really being presented with full context.
AM 860
Mar 28 • 5:55 PM

B_MAR_OREG_113

welcome back not bad shows we get all so it's always fun to hear about what's going on even if
overall having worked through a very very different time most of our lives it does go to show
that there are still some things we can do and play safe I know personally I've just been
catching up on things doing some my continuing education classes that type of thing and
chairman greg you guys were talking about some stuff you were doing earlier in the show so it's
just you don't pitch just a matter of getting through it but it's impor Or miss stay healthy they're
saying that mental health issues definitely on the rise this time of year and if you're feeling that
way make sure you make the call their suicide hotline some of the other information is
definitely available for anybody that needs right now in fact going through that out on social
84

media is well and we want to talk little bit about some of the changes that we've seen out there
one of the ones I've noticed is fresh
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 27 • 6:09 AM

B_MAR_OREG_114

Portland police chief said earlier this week at 9.1 calls related to suicide has skyrocketed since
the emergency declaration to have a chron virus itself Mike Turner have advised the
psychologist about fear and anxiety it not just beginning to get calls from people were Fed up
with the isolation and fear from the ordered to stay at home Providence behavior health chief
Robert Anderson says there are things you can do to limit the amount of information taken a
day if all we're hearing is all coated in all about all of the time that's really stressful and for our
families that have kids at home those kids get feel that's festooned so our kids are watching
how we're responding to this crisis and that will help guide how they respond don't be afraid to
talk to your kids about this.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 27 • 4:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_115

a documentary on the hart family murder suicide is due out early next month, it's been about 2
years since jen and sarah hart drove their suv off a northern california cliff, hundreds of miles
from the clark county home, their 6 adopted children were inside that van, everyone found
dead except 15 year-old davante hart whose body was never recovered. according to e e news
the documentary called a thread of deceit will be released digitally.
KONG-SEA
Mar 26 • 10:17 PM

B_MAR_WASH_59

while economic hardship and isolation raises worries about getting the coronavirus can take a
toll on our mental health. >> organizations that work on suicide prevention this is the time to
prioritize your emotional needs, and to check on others who might be struggling. here is ted
land. >> reporter: one of washington state's leading experts on suicide prevention warns of a
perfect storm of suicides as coronavirus disrupts live and people take drastic steps to stop the
virus from spreading. but she says there are things people can do right now to stop the storm.
>> it's a humongous stress that i think a large chunk of our population is going to be dealing
with, and trying to grapple with. there is very clear evidence that economic downturns are a
time to be concerned about suicide prevention. >> reporter: dr. jennifer stuber's cofounder of
forefront suicide prevention says, in addition to worries about money and health, many of the
things we are doing to avoid coronavirus like isolation, avoiding family and friends, disrupting
our routines, could have a harmful impact for people at risk of suicide. >> there's no questions
that we will see increased population anxiety and depression at this time. >> reporter: she says
it's important to watch out for warning signs. for example, someone talking about or posting on
social media about wanting to hurt themselves, becoming isolated or withdrawn, talking about
feeling trapped, and also with an increase in gun ownership, it's important to keep firearms
85

locked. the same for excess medications. but now is the time we should really be checking in
with each other. there's all the reason in the world to be checking in with each other because
everybody's world is different than what it was a couple weeks ago. >> reporter: if you are
worried about someone else, it's okay to ask them if they are thinking about hurting
themselves. she says that question is also a lifeline and can lead to someone getting much
needed help. ted land, king 5 news. >>> the phone number for the national suicide prevention
hotline is on your screen. is available seven days a week, 24 hours a day.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 28 • 6:46 AM

B_MAR_OREG_116

the American Foundation for suicide Prevention remind you to care for your mental health in
the face of uncertainty focus on what's in your control versus what is not do what helps you
feel a sense of safety remind yourself to stay in the present stay connected with others reach
the crisis text line by texting T lk to 7 4 won 7 4 want or call the National suicide Prevention
lifeline at one 802.3 talk we're in this together and help is always available.
KAPP (ABC)
Mar 27 • 6:20 AM

B_MAR_WASH_60

with millions of americans staying home, local psychiatrists are concerned about what this
isolation could do to those already at risk for suicide. according to the world health organization
many suicides happen impulsively in moments of crisis. life stresses, such as financial problems,
disaster, and isolation are strongly associated with suicidal behavior. ("as much as it is really
easy to get caught up in everything of the you know the public health safety and welfare as it
comes to coughing and sneezing and everything were touching. remember to take care of
peoples mental health around you as well and as your isolating and as your scared and
concerned and whatever it might be remember that there's a lot of people that are fighting
other battles that we can't see.")if you or a loved one needs help the national suicide
prevention lifeline number is at the bottom of your screen. we'll also have a list of suicide
prevention resources on our website.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Mar 29 • 6:30 AM

B_MAR_OREG_117

She worries about getting exposed to the grocery store and keeping her kids schooling on track
now Miller is considering resuming medication and therapy she leaned on years ago I have a
feeling I'm alone and that's been no patterns of life have collapsed millions of workers have
been thrown into economic uncertainty their stresses our workers because of any number of
other factors of business in sham bowls elderly relatives having young kids and new child care
on top of that intense isolation could hurt those already struggling with loneliness addiction
and depression Alan army can catch is assistant secretary of the substance abuse and Mental
Health services administration we're starting to see some increase in the use of some art
disaster distress helpline for suicide Prevention lifeline the cats cat says the agency will staff up
86

to handle the anticipated volume jamie Alexis fowler is founder of empower work a crisis
hotline for workplace issues she is last week alone the number of incoming text and calls
increased 200% the number one concern is mental health so stressed prem fear job losses q
how they can take care of their finances it's a stressful time even for those who aren't normally
anxious stephanie Barnes described herself as usually pretty happy but the last two weeks
delivered a series of gut punches I mean Hey has been very stressful barnes loves her job as a
substitute teacher in columbus ohio but the school shut down touched off a cascade of trouble
for her she's not getting paid she has a pile of bills the website for unemployment benefits went
down and that's not all my birthday party got canceled and then the next week I develops
symptoms of the virus last weekend as she awaited the results her anxiety went into overdrive
both waiting for my test results I gloves checking checking checking it and Lucas being isolated
and not having any human contact she tried to fill a prescription for an anxiety medication the
pharmacy was sold out so Barnes called a few friends to event which lifted her spirits now she's
trying to hold onto that I just try to look forward to the future and and remember that this is
not going to last forever last night she said she tested positive for the virus she says initial
sadness and concern has turned to relief at least now she knows he came to Gucci npr news if
you or someone you know is in crisis please call the National suicide Prevention lifeline at 102.3
8 to 5 5
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Mar 29 • 8:29 AM

B_MAR_WASH_61

positive patient you would see the percentage of patients saw of serious disease and hand look
at the ceiling without a history not so high but a small percentage of an enormous nominee
makes ready to go there and that issue that the disease spreads Frieden me the number of
patients who require ice he'll soon only to will to overcome that number why you mess and
that's fine you need to put in place Yara emergency plans for our wise location of into nickerson
italy has some of the most draconian social distancing rules in place people can go outside for
any reason it is an urgent I do you think needs to happen and United States Yes neck Frampton
that simulate avoided they got us a few I mean you were talking about the number of that
which is compatible with that the second world war that's why it is not a tool Dr Jett Cuomo
aggressively is quite hitting intensive care units in Lombardy italy thank you very much I
appreciate your time your system the stress in this country is palpable were all worrying about
a healthy economy school cancellations jobs what the future holds with so many people now
staying home and teleworking there are concerns about the mental health of the workers as
NPR's you can do it cheaper points anxiety it her aides this corrode virus era our sense of threat
is heightened and that has Monica Miller feeling familiar pangs of tightness in your chest
pressure taken also literally feel like a closing of a vision I learned way it's of fear that common
and then subside and then come again Miller is a single working mother of two young children
they're all confined to their Sausalito California home the realities of life during corrode the
virus settle in the last week and how I was going to handle working from home or with San I
really panicked me Miller who works in public relations level with her box I had to explain listen
I may have a child but comes in the room crying when I'm supposed to be on a claim call but
she has lots of other concerns she worries about getting exposed at the grocery store and
87

keeping her kids schooling on track now know is considering resuming medication and therapy
she leaned on years ago I have a feeling I'm not alone and that's than normal patterns of life
have collapsed millions of workers have been thrown and economic uncertainty their stresses
are worse because of any number of other factors a business in sham bowls elderly relatives
having young kids and new child care on top of that into Heads isolation could hurt those
already struggling with loneliness addiction and depression Alan army can count is assistant
secretary of the substance of abuse and Mental Health services administration we're starting to
see some increase in the use of some of our disaster distress helpline for suicide Prevention
lifeline the cats cat his agency will staff up to handle the anticipated volume jamie Alexis fowler
is founder of empower work a crisis hotline for workplace issues she is last week alone the
number of the incoming text and calls increased 200% the number one concern is mental
health so stressed Ram fear job losses q how they can take care of their finances is it's a
stressful time and even for those who aren't normally anxious stephanie Barnes described
herself as usually pretty happy the last two weeks delivered a series of gut punches I mean Hey
has been very stressful barnes loves her job as a substitute teacher in columbus ohio but the
schools shut down touched off a cascade of trouble for her she's not getting paid she has a pile
of bills the website for unemployment benefits went down and that's not all my birthday party
got canceled and then the next week I I develops symptoms of the crooner virus last weekend
as she awaited the results her anxiety went into overdrive both waiting for my test results I
glimpsed checking it and gloat just being isolated and not having any human contact she tried
to fill a prescription for an anxiety medication the pharmacy was sold out so Barnes called a few
friends to event which lifted her spirits now she's trying to hold onto that I just try to look
forward to the future and remember that this is not going to last forever last night she said she
tested positive for the virus she says initial sadness and concern has turned to relief at least
now she knows he came to Gucci NPR news if you or someone you know is in crisis please call
the National suicide Prevention lifeline at one 802.3 8 to 5 5.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 29 • 6:07 PM

B_MAR_OREG_118

washington has the fifth most coronavirus in the cases. governor inslee says the two-week stayat-home order will likely be extended. >>> how are you feeling? it's an important question to
ask yourself during this time. the world seems to be coming to a full stop with businesses
closing and people no longer going to school or work. but life must go on. photojournalist
andrew cristman took a moment to ask people during these unprecedented times. >> all things
considered feeling pretty good. >> feeling pretty anxious. >> i feel great, no illness, no sickness.
>> hasn't been that tough. >> first i wasn't too worried and then i got laid off. >> feeling worried
about my fellow people. >> they couldn't afford me anymore. life is still working out. >> how do
you feel? >> good. >> i'm still feeling like a sad extrovert. i need to see more people. >> it seems
a bit surreal. i keep thinking it's going to end soon but it's not. >> stress and confusion. like it is
not clear like where this is going on a long-term trajectory. >> on the one hand it feels really
normal but you also know it's abnormal and there are small little signs. >> i've been working
from home since march 13th. >> you feel like you've been cooped up in the house for too long.
>> no. >> do you miss school? >> no. >> working from home. watching netflix. >> trying to stay
88

active as best i can. >> hanging out in the house and playing the banjo. >> looking at the
weather change through the within o. >> the hardest part is not being able to see our son. >>
we're surviving. >> it's a challenge you've got the three kids trying to care for them, do distance
learning and work full-time. >> i think the most frustrating part has been people not taking it
seriously. >> stay positive, hang in there, use a lot of this stuff. >> breathe in, breathe out, and
most of all, pray. >> and a reminder for you. if you do feel overwhelmed, you're certainly not
alone. there are a lot of people who can help you through this difficult time. you can call the
national lifeline 1-800-273-talk or go to suicide lifeline prevention.org to chat with a medical
expert.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 29 • 11:10 PM

B_MAR_OREG_119

mental health experts say being alone can be the biggest challenge for some, but there are
ways to overcome it. we talked to the crisis management institute. she says getting screen time
may be important to feel connected, but it is a good time to step away from the screen. go for a
walk and get somewhere and do something good for others. >> who we will become as a
community and who we will come as individuals is going to have everything to do about how
we are approaching it right now. if we will be a kinder society it is because we focused on other
people's needs and helped give food and buy food cards for families rather than worrying if we
ran out of pop tarts or if we have another -- enough popcorn to watch another netflix series. >>
she says it is also normal to get some space from those you live with. if you are feeling
overwhelmed, you are not alone. people can help you get through this difficult time. call the
national lifeline. that number is 800-273-talk. go to suicide prevention lifeline.org to chat with a
mental health expert.
KDRV (ABC)
Mar 30 • 6:21 PM

B_MAR_OREG_120

right now -- the coronavirus pandemic is having an impact on a lot of people's mental health. if
you or a loved one are struggling -- there are resources available. in jackson county -- there are
resources available for adult and children. there is also a mental health crisis line. the number
for that is on your screen right now. the number for the national suicide prevention lifeline is
also on your screen. it is available to call 24-7. only on newswatch 12 -- we're continuing to
bring you the very latest coronavirus news and information. due to this -- there are some
changes to our regular nighttime programming. abc will continue to air "nightline" right after
newswatch 12 at 11.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Mar 30 • 5:47 PM

B_MAR_OREG_121

let's talk about louis knight. he's a great guy. he's originally from the uk. his personal story was
kind of rough and i had a childhood friend die by suicide and that shaped a lot of his song
choices and songwriting. sang castle on a hill by ed sheeran. kind of had a rough rehearsal. you
89

and i agree that it wasn't the best performance. >> you can tell this suicide of his best friend
really hit him. it shows how deep. for him to perform that song I think too, the lyrics of that
song. his one person who has a past. there are some performers that have one past and he's
one of them. >> they agreed. francisco martin. he has struggled with yours more than anybody
i've ever seen and he sang falling by harry styles. i didn't see the nerves anywhere. >> it was a
different performer. he rocked it. it is a completely different person. >> and really good. singing
that way without the nerves, you can tell he will be one of the contenders. >> i think louis was
sticking out because he had the confidence. and then last night was like wow, francisco! >>
amber, one of those interesting stories. she was pregnant when she auditioned in sunriver. her
decision was to give this baby up for adoption where she knew the family. she sang good kisser.
i really liked her voice during a lot of these pre-audition
shows. i thought the performance was okay but, she ended up not making it through. kind of a
shock for her too. >> i really like her too. her song choice, her tone wasn't as good last night. it
just wasn't a great performance. there's a lot of good women in that mix. didn't know if she
would have that pass. she was like, i thought i nailed it. couldn't have done better. >> that's
rough when the judge's say, it wasn't your best. okay, just sam. this was probably the best
performance. >> it was crazy! i really wanted to text you last night. >> look at katie's face. not
only did she have a physical transformation. she came out and sang, como la flor. she doesn't
speak spanish. >> she gets better and better. her story is wonderful. she comes from the
projects in new york. this is her chance. that was ridiculous. she should have saved that for the
finals. >> we are both rooting for her. last one, johnny west. we've been following him because
he was talked about being part of a couple. he was with margie mays. margie did not make it
through to this part. so it was kind of like, how is he going to do without her in the competition.
he did pretty well. judges like him. >> you don't sound too excited about that one.
FM News 101 KXL
Mar 30 • 9:55 AM

B_MAR_OREG_122

good morning I there how can I help my now Ashley I'm got maybe a two-part question if I can
get along we don't get by camp that I I by chance to a lot of that third and my sense our
alternate christian am that question and cut me one time what God would think and what he
would do if of person hands growing willing to share it with your Aleve racked with Kylie if they
can then its billing for eye while he played while he dared I Wow I think he would probably
break the but they kind Here's the have to have free well but that's mott pretty well if you're so
bad that I think you're not thinking last L.A. because you don't really want to die you the one
crying and she said I know I don't believe that that is all about love Y yet now the and Bain and
Altor Christian they're kind of people that want made worry they're paying more and bad for
that matter then made you try to to travel with them they should sit down with Kachin like that
know I mean just stretching out and hinted that there feel Michael cruel and everybody else
that the triangle if there's a great fit them all with that they're looking down at the table when
and nobody came to my rescuer and make him out that would took me a minute Wow thanks
for I know what it was I got you plus a group of friends I know I'm sure listen to what even own
Uber Christian needs or any of that means I mean on youth if there are christians christians and
I know there's some people that try to climb the stairs to have then by being self-righteous and
90

nobody I never let you forget they're christian and their momma sure sure but I won't I won't
tell you this there are those who believe it's suicide it is unforgivable I'll tell you why in order to
be forgiven there has to be repentance the belief is if you kill yourself it's the ultimate act of
freedom that him all ashes all of their freedom you can't undo it own so the belief is that once
you make that it's like one driving off a cliff if you do that you can't halfway down go I want
repent one that I want to turn this around to the there's a theological beliefs that you cannot
repent from therefore the in God there's nothing there's no interaction there at that point you
have rejected the will of God and thrown out the enemy of God which is death you've given
into it first Corinthian's 15 _twenty_ _six_ refers to death as the enemy and Genesis to 7 life is a
secret gift from God so you reject the gift that God has given and degrom me 30 19 and God is
talking israel on telling them to choose life life and death has had a very powerful purpose and
meaning in scripture most definitely however to thought fit they're big God who's outside of
space and time that there is some connection even in those milliseconds those moments better
not understood by humanity that in that act of death that may seem so immediate that there
isn't one Morse and there is communication with God for someone to say that he's not fear
thought stay Atement or some sham because there is you can't nowhere God is in that moment
with that individual and in not knowing and you can't land does this brings up another question
no does the suicide eliminate pain and it does not all it doesn't pass it on to someone else a
ruling because you have someone who says they're in so much pain they want to release
themselves from that so they leave appearance and all that pain stays here with people who
love them who missed them I don't understand and so if that's the goal it really doesn't get rid
of it it nearly passes it along with and it doesn't have the people I'm sorry I I am sorry I can't
thank you like if you like dying from brain cancer for you and me the bed she had been them
because they can't stand it anymore and you're not thinking Leslie you don't want that more of
what I was thinking of I understand that I understand why people would be in that that place
but with each person that goes through these things science medicine and all of these learn
more and more and that's a group thing a group cast it's not just the you it's about others as
well I think you for your call that is a thing that people need to understand it's not just about
pam jesus christ sure will return in a moment.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 31 • 5:05 PM

B_MAR_OREG_123

it's not just our physical health we need to worry about right now. it's also taking a toll mentally
on a lot of us. kezi 9 news reporter emma withrow spoke with one therapist... who has some
tips on how to handle the stress. < emma withrow: the cdc reports people with preexisting
mental health conditions should continue with their treatment and be aware of new or
worsening symptoms, but it difficult when everything, including your therapist office is closed.
but a therapist from eugene therapy explained the best alternatives to cope with the stress and
uncertainty. marc zola, a therapist with eugene therapy, says their clinic has been extremely
busy since the stay at home order began. they've been counseling clients online with mental
health issues, through telehealth. his biggest suggestion so far, to cope with stress and anxiety?
structure. marc zola: i think really, trying to figure out a way to maintain a schedule and
maintain a structured environment is what seems to be most helpful to people in terms of what
91

you can do behaviorally. zola also recommends getting outdoors at least once a day. and, if
you're having suicidal thoughts -- talk to someone immediately. zola: when you distancing, and
you socially connected to people it makes sense that the fear and uncertainty would be a little
more powerful and take hold of your anxious mind.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Mar 31 • 6:38 PM

B_MAR_OREG_124

reporter: captain tim fox with the oregon state police the agency that manages a organ. it
started 2017 as a way for students to call in and report harmful behavior against themselves
and or others. save oregon says their calls for suicidal thoughts and cyber bullying are all now
10%. >> this is a strange time for everyone. no one has been through this before in our lives.
the social isolation so if you have a problem and of those things reach out to save oregon we
will classify it and get you help that you need. >> reporter: one of those resources is youth light.
a crisis line for teens to speak with someone their own age confidentially and anonymously. >> i
like a lot of people my age and no, know how to figure it out they just need to talk about it. and
so i do think that it really really helps to be able to tell to somebody your age. >> reporter: it too
has seen an increase in calls from teensy can help just wanted someone to talk to. it is too early
to draw any conclusions as to what it is related to. because all of our calls i have general a big
part of it is listening. this is just like another situation where south of reels of feels really out of
control. >> reporter: does remember even if it feels like the world feels close off don't close
yourself off from the world and reach out for help. i am devon haskins, kgw. >> that help is
always there 24 seven.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Mar 31 • 8:37 AM

B_MAR_OREG_125

he was only scared by losing his freedom. >> reporter: so you don't believe that he was killed in
prison? >> no. he committed suicide. there's no doubt in my mind. >> reporter: you write you
struggled with epstein's death. how so >> i felt after ten years of doing battle with him i got to
know him so well. the victims were deprived, i was deprifdved deprived, and also feels he left
laughing. >> edwards and epstein settled their lawsuit in 2018. as part of the settlement epstein
publicly apologized admitting the charges he brought against edwards were an unreasonable
attempt to damage the attorney's reputation. we like to note edwards book is published by
gallery and in print. gayle, this continues to go oranges this case. they are attempting to create
a fund for the victims from the estate but that's an ongoing legal battle. >> anthony, that story
was fascinating on so many levels to me. number one, i find it interesting that brad edwards is
so convinced he committed suicide when so many people don't think jeffrey epstein took his
own life and number two, i sat here asking how did they shoot that interview? can you give us a
brief explanation. you're in your office. i don't know where he was. you clearly were having a
conversation together. how did you guys do that >> when he a lot of help. i shot it here in my
home and got him to sit outside so the crew could be far enough away from him. but we
wanted to get a really nice audio and the crew did a very nice job. >> yeah. it was very, very
well done. very well done. also interesting. and when he said to you that epstein said to him if
92

you keep pursuing me somebody is going to get hurt. that's very ominous and also scary. >> he
took it as a threat. brad edwards took it as a threat. >> it's clear that more than jeffrey epstein
life was lost when he died in prison, a full accounting of what happened was lost as well.
KEZI (ABC)
Mar 31 • 6:15 PM

B_MAR_OREG_126

a lot of us are worried about getting physically sick. but, we also need to take care of our
mental health. kezi 9 news reporter emma withrow spoke to a local therapist and a crisis
negotiator from cahoots to explain how the current climate is affecting the most vulnerable in
our community. marc zola, therapist, eugene therapy: try to notice what is actually real, what
happening now, verses a worst-case scenario though, or a worst-case scenario fear. that was
marc zola, a local therapist who works with eugene therapy. zola said their clinic is currently
counseling over 600 people per week, struggling with anxiety and depression during this
uncertain time. zola: give yourself a break and realize that you this alone, we are all
experiencing this. therapists are experiencing this too. the level of uncertainty really
contributes to the anxiety in the community. but those who can afford to talk out their
struggles with zola through telehealth are actually the lucky ones. (00:00:45) emma withrow:
with lack of resources for people on the streets to access mental health guidance, kimberly with
cahoots tells me the white bird clinic has been ringing off the hook. she said she wishes that
they could give their clients an end date to look forward to& but right now that possible.
kimberly phoner: a lot of them rely on their social supports to kind of get them through their
difficult times. that support just isn as available right now, so we respond and fill that gap and
fill that need for people. hawes says those who are unhoused with mental health issues are
dealing with increased anxiety because they aren illness in the same way they normally would
because of the social distancing guidelines. if i is suicidal i want to know who their supports are
and how they can access them, and even if they have supports they just aren their supports in
the same way they normally would if we weren zola and hawes both said if you are having
suicidal thoughts you need to contact a crisis hotline, friend, or family member immediately.
reportin in eugene emma withrow, kezi 9 news.

93

