KAYU (FOX)
Jun 1 • 1:01 AM

B_JUN_WASH_1

we have new information about breaking news we brought you last night... of a deadly shooting
in Spokane county. Spokane county sheriff's deputies now say it started as an argument when
one neighbor confronted another about a road range incident... involving some of his
employees. detectives say the shooter went to the other man's house in the bigelow gulch
neighborhood... and shot him in the driveway. Paramedics rushed the man to the hospital...
and tonight he's still fighting for his life. the gunman went home after the shooting... and as
deputies closed in... he shot and killed himself.
KXLY (ABC)
Jun 1 • 2:05 AM

B_JUN_WASH_2

now to the nightside crime watch with an update on the breaking news we brought you last
night. the sheriff's office says the fatal shooting last night near east bigelow gulch was an
attempted murder suicide. a man called 9-1-1 around 6 pm saying his neighbor shot him during
an ongoing fight. when deputies got to the scene, they saw the suspect leaving the victim's
driveway... he walked away from deputies and killed himself. the victim was taken to the
hospital and is in critical former Oregon prison guard, "Dave" farber learned today... he will
spend 10 years behind bars for sexually abusing a teenage girl...prosecutors say he gave the
middle school student a cellphone and love letters and asked for nude photos of her...farber
was fired from the two rivers correctional institution in Umatilla last year.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jun 1 • 2:08 AM

B_JUN_WASH_3

tonight, police are looking for a motive in a deadly stabbing. the professor saying, they got a call
from someone inside the home at around 2:00 a.m. they found one man dead, while in women
is was sent to the hospital with critical injuries. According to police, the suspect was ignored
when they arrived. they said he was known to the victims. neighbors were relieved to hear that
police later caught up to him in renton. >> it's a little unsettling, but you know, we just got to
trust them to do their jobs and hope that they will take care of everything. it can still be a sick
amenity. >> reporter: the woman stabbed is expected to survive. >> a person of interest has
come forward in the case of human remains found. in the family's backyard. Michael pat had
been seeing from the early 90s but had not been reported missing until recently. skeletal
remains were uncovered inot person of interest rick nelson was at the house where the
remains were found. a woman gave a declaration last year that nelson told her he buried a man
there. >>> embattled metro examiner must explain why exactly the family of a teenage boy
who fell to his death. >> it was not suicide. he shouldn't be there. >> reporter: Michael says his
1

son jordan did not jump from a bridge crossing the puyallup river. rather, his death was an
accident. medical examiner doctor thomas clark insisted it was suicide. police and investigate
her sided with the family saying the 16-year-old fell and died while socializing with a friend in
july. >> this is a case where we differed with the medical examiner. we believe it was more
likely and accidental death. >> that judge today ruled that doc clark must answer questions in
the deposition. one of three families questioning clark's findings, three employees of the
medical examiner's office have also filed complaints against clark. he also filed complaints with
the Washington medical association point >>> a security guard appears to throw a man in a
wheelchair to the ground. next, hear from that guard, who says there is more to the story. >>>
this guy could have helped the store clerk suffering a medical episode. the choice he made
which had police looking for him tonight.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 1 • 9:06 AM

B_JUN_WASH_4

Pierce County medical examiner is being forced to testify under oath about the death of a
teenager on July 6 2017 60 year-old Jordan gays died when he fell from a small River bridge
while horsing around with a friend Pierce County Md dock and Be Dr Thomas clerk ruled a
suicide police investigators disagreed this is a case where we differ with the medical examiner
we believed it was more likely an accidental death so additions family and yesterday appears
County Superior court judge ordered Clark to be deposed under oath by his family attorneys
they're seeking to get Jordan death certificate changed.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jun 1 • 7:05 PM

B_JUN_WASH_5

when they found out that I had a condition that caused me to frequently pass out, they even
threatened me saying if I find, you better be glad that I don't find you passed out alone and that
really terrified me. - in situations like you described, some teens might turn to hurting
themselves. - well, I definitely thought about hurting myself and I actually did. I still have the
scars to this day. my depression got so awful. I felt so alone. I isolated myself from my friends,
my family, any and everybody. and I was so depressed because of the threats, the bullying, the
chronic illness. I started self-harming and it got so bad one night that the one thought that
came across my mind was I’m causing myself pain, I’m causing my parents pain and money and
resources, and I can end it all right here, right now. and I was seriously considering harming or
attempting suicide. and before I actually did that and I was still self-harming, my mom actually
came in the room and, sorry, she came in the room and she saw me and she said, hannah, what
are you doing? why are you doing this? and I snapped. I said I can't deal with this anymore, any
longer. I can't take the pressure. and she just held me and embraced me in her arms and we
were both crying, I’m talking about like, out of our eyes waterfalls coming and in the midst of
all that chaos, I came up with the best creation that I think I could ever come up with,
personally. it's called the not ok app. - the not ok app is essentially a panic button that when
pressed it says, hey, I’m not okay with your GPS location. it sends this message to your preselected, up to five, closest contacts. along with that message comes a link to a webpage that
2

has the person's gps location and directions. above that is two buttons that say, yes, I can help
and no, I cannot help. - sounds like an amazing app. have you earned any special recognition or
awards? - we actually did win the international back history award for blacks in tech, and we've
been submitted for three mental health awards. - that's pretty impressive. hannah, any advice
for teens who may be struggling with feelings of depression? - the one piece of advice I would
give anybody, no matter what age you are, if you are depressed, if you are considering harming
yourself, if you're considering suicide, don't do it. you're not alone. I know how lonely it feels,
trust me. I get exactly how lonely it feels but you're alone. you need to trust your friends. I
know that's hard at first but find some good friends that you can trust and that you can tell
what you're going through and that will help you out of that situation cause you're not alone
and you're not going to make it through this alone but you will make it through. - good words of
advice. but remember, if a situation is potentially dangerous, not to mention life-threatening,
you should seek professional help. for teen kids news, I’m emily.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jun 2 • 2:15 AM

B_JUN_WASH_6

special event in Seattle tonight, sharing an important message about suicide prevention. >> I
know that people have been touched by suicide. >> reporter: clear lost her father and also a
college friend to suicide. according to the foundation for suicide prevention she spoke about
her experience and also how heap is out there for those who need it. it's currently the eighth
leading cause of death in Washington.
KINK Radio
Jun 2 • 9:03 AM

B_JUN_OREG_1

we’re talking to dr michael us he's the founder of the brain health education and research
institutes and we've been talking a lot about concussions this morning and we talk a lot about
professional athletes especially the NFL and their concussions but not so many people have
been talking about our young people and concussions especially girls and why they weiss is so
important right now dr louis to be talking about concussions and in her girls and already know
one of things that we're learning as we continue more worse science research and be the long
term effects I mean there's a study that came out recently that pointed to bet history of
concussions double your risk of suicide and you know these are things that while they sound
scary they can be mitigated I think a huge increase and mental health problems including
suicide which is really the ultimate mental health issue I think there's a huge contribution of
nutrition that we're not addressing it and kill the question for us we'll go back to the very
beginning wire girls having I don't know if we know like older having more concussions life rates
are increasing but you know as far as boys versus girls and girls it's a lot of times the
musculature you know the next train the girl is typically not seen as their male counterparts
particularly likes and hikes and strengthening doing extreme pain exercises had actually been
shown to decrease the risk of concussions as well so know there are ways we can mitigate
these risks I am a huge advocate of teams sports I think kids need to be al they need to be
outside they need to be out playing keen sports gives you those lessons in life for about being
3

teammate feel like there's a team sport you have it team mate how to win how to lose have
persevered how does it get knocked down and get back up again and those are questions that
you can't learn sitting on a couch playing xbox the truth now fewer in charge how would you
change the protocols that our schools when it comes to preventing and treating concussions.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Jun 2 • 8:37 PM

B_JUN_WASH_7

people driving through the queen anne neighborhood might notice signs popping up in their
yards with messages meant to inspire. kiro 7 spoke with coby wallace who started putting up
signs like don't give up, it's about teen suicide rates. he got the idea from Oregon mom. he said
the message is spreading. he said there popping up in every other part of Seattle. >> people
crave positivity and they crave love. is such a sick thing. so, it resonated with me and so I knew
it would resonate with other people. >> he wants to finance more signs so he's not keeping any
profits.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 3 • 7:15 PM

B_JUN_WASH_8

internet challenges are growing in popularity, but they can be extremely dangerous. >> the
challenges spread on YouTube and other social media sites. one recent study looks at the
prevalence of the choking game challenge. it's a dangerous, potentially fatal activity where
children and teens attempt to limit blood flow and oxygen to the brain to produce a high.
researchers look at youth between the ages of 9 and 16 and found close to 10 percent of the
nearly 2,000 children studied had tried this game it's dangerous on its own but may also be a
way of some teens to play with the idea of suicide. >> teens and pre-teens with suicidal
thoughts or self-harm are associated with individuals who have tried these supposed games
such as this choking game or other high-risk behavior. >> parents should keep in mind that
many kids won't immediately admit to partaking in risky behavior. the most important thing
parents can do is communicate with their kids. >>> and there's a program aiming to give cancer
patients more opportunities to try experimental treatments. many seek treatments that aren't
on the market yet but show promise in early testing. under the plan announced today, the food
and drug administration will help doctors with the paperwork to make the patient's case to
drug companies. >> what it's doing is really answering a call from the American public to have
access to drugs before they are approved. >> this program is just for drugs to treat cancer, not
other diseases, but the hope is to streamline the process for those that want to try something
experimental.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 3 • 7:15 PM

B_JUN_WASH_9

friends of cassie scaff say they're thankful Jordan Eaton was caught so quickly. >> he made his
first court appearance moments ago, and keith eldridge is live at the jail where Eaton is held on
extremely high bail tonight. >> reporter: right, $5 million because of the nature of the crime
4

and the fact that eaton ran for the border. that green coat Jordan Eaton is wearing is a suicide
prevention smock with the pierce county jail believing he's a threat to himself and others. in
court today eaton rambled on about wanting to be executor of something and wanting the
judge to help. >> I’d like to appoint myself executor. >> reporter: but the judge would have
none of it and ordered eaton to remain quiet while not guilty pleas were entered on his behalf.
he's accused of january 28th murder of cassie scaff. they were Eaton shot her at his parents'
puyallup home and then he took off the safe day and fled to Canada. he was caught the same
day. >> I was so afraid they wouldn't find him alive, and I feel like he needs to face prison time.
that's way worse than death. >> reporter: the court papers do not show a motive. her friends
can only guess. >> I’ve heard she's tried to leave them, and he's threatened to kill himself and
kill her, so I don't know what led up to the shooting. >> reporter: court document documents
from 2016 show Eaton’s own parents and sister filed an order of protection against him saying
he needs mental health help. he's threatened several times to kill us and his brother and wife. I
cannot stress enough that jail will not help him, but rather make things worse. but a source
close to the Eaton family says the detectives need to consider the possibility that the shooting
was accidental and that he actually performed cpr before fleeing, fearing no one would believe
him. and the family source continues to say they've tried throughout the years to get him
mental health and drug counseling and treatment, but they say the system just simply failed
him. his next court appearance is June 20th. live in Tacoma, keith eldridge, cole news.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 3 • 10:11 PM

B_JUN_OREG_2

they either get depressed they lose money they go broke loose someone like truly love and
them deciding on a shooting rampage in hopes of attracting the police staum the police arrived
in a gunfight ensues the suspect is killed and that brings us to the idea of suing aside by cop
now the media never looks in two suicide by cop you have to look at this this is the as a
phenomenon that every member of the you know and we know that happens and this is we
just don't hear about it the shootings like this we hear about the twitter user about the gun
issue is guns that usis hand and he's he's quote assault unquote weapon you know they have all
these various states to make weapons sound be no more lethal than they are and how any
weapon is lethal we used for killing and you know in any weapon and anything to be lately he's
night for a pencil or panic be lethal so um so the the media avoids talking about suicide by cop
and how that might be that maybe addition lot of this room they want to exploit the tragedy a
demand for gun control they want they also but post showing her post shooting they look for
the eventual valuation motive and sometimes it gets uglier I mean by that is sometimes the
media gets ahold of the medical record something as a medical records or whatever they do
the social media they will always the things they exploit any no abnormalities your medical
records even if they're not an issue anymore a perfect example of this and going by experience
of about two weeks ago there was a school here in Portland we're you there's a whole this kind
of antics schools we've got elementary school and then just a couple of doors down we have
the middle school and just across the that a lot there's the high school and it's called park rose
high school and my steps and we would depart prism entry 80 biggest part was middle those
nice 13 in the course of the schools are kind of like in this cluster in this area of town or union
5

goes to school and dumb there was a report of a shooting that happened part Chris high school
and I was you know kind of thing myself what's going on that's where liam is it I was kind of
worried and William was there but I called jimmy aging said no don't worry we missed it he
middle school not a high school the middle schools nearby and I get phone to know the schools
on lockdown should move you know the but he was in lockdown as well and I remember in a
couple days before the eye of her waking up we have a storm that I said why are you going to
school today I mean of course you know the days of course is getting closer and graduations
getting closer to its school year you know this I mean we're both when we were kids we want
good schools last couple days school is nothing that was going on really assigning your books
and hanging out screw around I thought you know this will go on glee million sitting down no I
just want to go they would ruin the some kid wants to suicide stone be exposed that's a and I
thought to myself well okay well I mean for the sums up and down and I didn't know what to do
without it going to say and then sure enough this kid goes the tennis courts and brings gone
and then the trust was suicidal as a gym teacher cool comes in and basically tackle the kid the
ground incident saves the kids from something worse with the media handle this is it that was a
mass shooting word give a lot of kids were in danger and maybe a few words that they had had
an idea is going to happen they did nothing to stop it I and knew this kid was having some
problems but they didn't act on the meeting you get him help burning like that I think you know
there's a certain degree of al bassam prevention you take a certain degree we know the kid is
having problems and it's pressing problems on the internet saying something say something
and do something because you know didn't shoot anybody while wasn't shooting was basing
his suicide attempt got blown out of proportion by the media here locally made the turn in to a
gunman to kill all these kids l appearance like going they can go back to school now that given
all this you know reporting of this sort of that and I think you know that's the point the media
exploits days they make it bigger than it truly is and they don't senator on the problem they
don't set on this fear or the with depression for the anger or the anger issues bernie that and
like I said there's a certain amount of prevention go into this but there's a proposal now thing is
over the top here and I’m gonna explain I believe without permission is good I think we need to
be aware of things what is being proposed is right now these that it's tantamount to big brother
again of this time as a lot worse and every single one of us will be pretty much under the radar
for activity if these new bills ideas past so stay tuned.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 4 • 12:54 PM

B_JUN_WASH_10

talking about mental health has become easier in recent times but there is one group of people
that tend to get overlooked when it comes to serious mental health and suicide risk pre-teens
pediatrician Dr. Herbert grover cites a study found in the Journal hospital Pediatrics shows
more than half of pre-teens who sought out emergency care for mental health related issues
screen positive for suicide risk part of the challenge is that this still has a significant amount of
stigma Associated with it. I don't want to talk about and people don't one duel cleveland the
child feel Hey Dr grover says even for pre-teen is aware of the mental health struggles could be
difficult to open up to their parents if get things us saying we should not making any sense at all

6

B_JUN_OREG_3

KDRV (ABC)
Jun 4 • 2:17 PM

when parents worry about suicidal thoughts and when parents worry about suicidal thoughts
and behaviors, those worries are most commonly associated with high school-aged kids. but, a
recent study finds nearly a third of children between the ages of ten and twelve screen positive
for suicide risk in the emergency department. researchers found more than half of pre-teens
who sought emergency care for mental health-related issues screened positive for suicide risk.
and seven percent of children who came for physical complaints also screened positive for
suicide risk. doctors say, children and teens often come in for emergency care with repeat
problems. and sometimes when asked the right questions, a mental health issue is revealed.
many young teens and preteens are more aware of signs of mental health struggles. but it can
still be difficult for them to open up and have those conversations with their parents. doctors
advise parents to be on the lookout for any sudden and unexplained changes in their child's
behavior. if you or someone you know is struggling with mental health issues or suicidal
thoughts -- you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen
now -- you can also find it on our website -- kdrv-dot-com.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 4 • 9:22 PM

B_JUN_WASH_11

I like to talk about another important topic which is expanding efforts to prevent veteran
suicides yes the v.a. has said this is the highest critical priority right something like 20 veterans
die each day by suicide and the number has for the most part been pretty consistent yeah why
after years of making this a priority hasn't the v.a. been able to make a real improvement in this
area well I don't think the country has made it a priority I said that we need a national
conversation on mental health homelessness and addiction you're in charge of the year so let's
talk about what the v.a. is doing yeah well the v.a. has got very specific programs every veteran
who comes to us it's a mental health screening every veteran who comes to us has same-day
mental health services so why have the numbers improved here's the problem all of these
cases are not related give you an example 14 of the 20 who take their lives our veterans that
we have no contact with the couple were on active duty several are on guard and reserve duty
and never deployed and football kirk are from the vietnam era lyndon johnson left Washington
d.c. 50 years ago in january and many of these problems have been brewing ever since that
time so we are not going to be able to get these numbers erased but we have to change the
culture that we start training troops the time they get into boot camp to the time they leave
and not only on their own mental health but to see signs in their body's have also said our
veterans crisis line get 17 100 calls a day of those 17 100 we act on true to 300 calls where we
send people out and we get those veterans help to the v.a. have enough mental health
providers right now well we are in the same position the united states and we were able to hire
39 100 mental health professionals.

7

KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 4 • 7:48 PM

B_JUN_OREG_4

more kids are using devices and internet challenges have grown in popularity. >> they can be
incredibly dangerous. one recent study looked at the prevalence of the choking game
challenge, dangerous and potentially deadly where children and teens attempt to limit blood
flow and oxygen to the brain to produce a high. researchers looked at youth between 9 and 16
and found close to 10% of the nearly 2,000 studied had tried the game. it's dangerous on its
own but could be a way to play with the idea of sue size. >> teens and pre-teens who had
thoughts of suicide have been associated who to r associate with individuals who have tried
these supposed games. >> doctors say parents should keep in mind many won't immediately
admit to taking part in risky behavior. the most important thing parents can do is communicate
with their kids.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jun 4 • 10:12 PM

B_JUN_WASH_12

a long-time sports team at a Seattle high school are carving out time to erase some of the
stigma surrounding mental illness. the roosevelt suicide prevention team is competing to save
lives. here's king 5's ted land. >> reporter: before the bell rings a few dozen roosevelt high
school students gather to talk about highs and lows. >> my low is that I procrastinated all of my
homework until last night. and so I was up until 2:00. >> my low is that I didn't really realize that
senior finals are, like, next week. >> reporter: everyone at theable grapples with something. >>
today is seven years since my friend died from suicide. and my high is that I get to spend it with
you guys. >> reporter: school nurse amanda schwartz is helping these teens talk about mental
health. a topic she says ails students far more than a sore throat or cold. >> I would say it's 90%
of my job. >> reporter: this suicide prevention team is an essential part of the school's efforts to
encourage students to open up about their inner struggles so they can get help. >> we have,
like, 40 members compared to the 8 members my freshman year when I joined. >> reporter:
they teach their classmates how to spot suicide warning signs and then practice talking about a
topic often silenced by stigma. >> we lost two students to suicide two years ago. one year right
after the other. and I think that we've definitely provided more resources. >> reporter: these
buttons are now on backpacks all throughout school. need the number for the mental health
crisis line? it's on the back of your friend's t-shirt. >> friends are the trusted person. they're
going to tell friends they're struggling long before me or parents or a school counselor. >>
reporter: amid the pressures of finals, graduation, and soon college, they're making time to
take care of themselves and each other. >> the people who come forward and say, hi, my life is
not all sun hooin all the time and I am a real person and I cry. and I have depression, I think
those are the people who make a difference. >> reporter: ted land, king 5 news. >> that team
heads to san francisco this weekend to volunteer for the out of the darkness overnight walk
which is a suicide prevention event.
KGW-POR (NBC)

B_JUN_OREG_5

8

Jun 5 • 2:44 PM
welcome back to dbl a 17-year-old dutch girl reportedly used euthanasia to end her life because
she had PTSD from being sexually abused as a child. this is noa. she'd been dialling with
depression and anorexia. her sister confirmed she died sunday in her home. it's unclear if she
passed away because she refused to eat and drink or if doctors played a role. assisted suicide is
legal in the netherlands. a very narrow window allows for a doctor to give someone end of life
drugs. erika, what do you think about having a minor -- >> I am so so heartbroken by this story.
because I understand what it's like to relive a day of your life and think that if this day never
happened then my entire life would be different. and generally you say that it's going to be
different for the better. but people have to understand regardless of what has happened to you
in this life, there is always a path to get over. this story scares me because I can see people
folding to the pressure of feeling like I can't get past this incident. I can't get past this day. it's so
important that we say this that you can get past it. I just watched this thing. it's a book called
the tethered soul. it's the idea of, like, removing or letting a feeling j pass. because if you can
get to that place, it's such a healthier place to be. I get it. I completely understand. I’m
heartbroken about this girl. because you think, nothing that I did actually made this act happen.
this is something that happened to me. but you can advocate for yourself and there's life after
this. so please, if you're feeling this way, please get some help. because people understand you.
I understand you. but it's going be okay. >> that's well said, erika. so given everything that you
just said, you can't support euthanasia at this young of an age, can you? >> no. >> so why do
you think they allow this? >> I don't know. I don't know. >> at such a young age. at 17 years old
you're able to give consent to do that. >> you need tools to help you help yourself navigate
through life. not to kill yourself. >> erika, she was raped at 11 and 14. do you feel as though she
just felt like she just couldn't go on anymore? do you feel like she's had help? >> I can't speak
for her. I can speak for myself and say that until recently I felt like I was one of the only ones.
like things were happening to me because I was somehow cursed. so I get that. because people
don't talk about it. and you're not cursed, you're just a person who's experiencing things good
and bad in this life. and everyone has that. you're not alone. and you're not the one who was
chosen for this unfortunate thing. you have to figure out a way or figure out why this happened
to you and build yourself from this from this point forward. because there is a greater life for
you. and maybe you can testimony teach to other people. so I just want people to be really
clear about that this is because we just can't spend our entire life thinking about the day that
our life fell apa. >> wow. >> powerful, erika. I know that we have some resources. can we put
them up? considering everything we talked about. some free crisis hotline numbers. if anybody
out there is considering suicide or if you're recovering from any sort of trauma, please reach
out, get some help, and just know that you're not alone as erica cobb just so el gently said. we'll
be right back.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 5 • 5:10 PM

B_JUN_WASH_13

to talk about before I get to that there is a story that has been trending worldwide at the end
it's and mostly role uce lead look for work Darren saying some fake news attached to it but it's a
9

horribly sad story and I do think it illustrates I did it it an unbelievably disturbing trend line and
that is that life is disposable and we are for whatever reason very air is a very active movement
worldwide to make life as disposable phone it's possible it's the story of the 17 year-old girl in
the Netherlands who her name is no pope open and story as it was reported worldwide was
that she was euthanized because she was depressed and that's it is not litter only true although
there are some elements of the story that are true go visit and girl just had a lovely 17 year-old
girl and she had been sexually assaulted at least two time times that she talked and rolled
about at age 11 and again at age 14 she had been sexually assaulted and she has been horribly
emotional Lea prom the ties by those sexual assaults and she wrote rather extensively about
the overwhelming depression that head said again with her sexually assaulted at age 11 raped
at age 14 as the story was being reported she chose to end her life because she couldn't deal
with the anguish anymore that is true word was mischaracterized was a lot of people said that
she was euthanized at these clinics they have in the Netherlands but she wrote about wanting
to end her life and she didn't pass away on Sunday in a Post she wrote love is letting go in this
case maybe this comes as a surprise to some given my posts about hospitalization but that plan
has been there for a long time She said she was choosing to die in the living room of her home
she said she was suffering from unbearable pain will get straight to the point within a maximum
of 10 days I will die after years of battling and fighting I’m drained and quit eating and drinking
for a while now and after many discussions in evaluations it was decided to let me go because
my suffering is unbearable this is my decision and this final I breathe but no longer lived and so
the way the story was being reported was that it's in the netherlands they do have to be
assisted suicide euthanasia and impacts when you see the Scouts in the Netherlands with the
this isn't it beautiful nation the Netherlands and how they have treated human life is so
disposable this is absolutely remarkable to me one quarter of all human deaths in the
Netherlands are didn't do think about that 28 5% whether it's ICE's suicide palliative sedation
which is apparently what happened with this 17 year-old girl and that's where you are place
into a coma and you're allowed to dehydrate to death and then there is and there's some
argument about whether Zhou her death should be characterized as a suicide or palliative
sedation because the exact cause of death hasn't been reported but then there's those two
suicide palliative sedation where they dehydrate to death and then euthanasia and they
euthanasia accounted for 6000 deaths in the netherlands in 2017 they're putting human beings
they are now on the way we put dogs to sleep in this country and some people celebrate that
some people think that's you know what why should humans have to suffer more than dogs
dogs down so they won't suffer why don't we treat human beings any lesser because human
life is precious and a 17 year-old girl I mean I hate I don't know what kind of pain that is but it's I
I personally know two people who were raped by strangers I know it's horrible I know it's
painful I know it's something you never fully get past but I also know that she can have a life
that has moments of July Yes and I’m trying to understand a society the tolls a 17 year-old kid
Yeah go ahead and kill yourself well pete the other part that's frankly so shocking is that kids as
young as 12 can legally seek to you tonight does the Netherlands I hope you are you're eligible
at age 12 if a doctor concludes the your psychological anguish is unbearable I am you know
what happens between the ages of one month kids are going through puberty and emotions
and hormones and the thing that goes through your head everything is unclear what you're not
going to live through it you think a breakup with the girl is unbearable at age 13 not to diminish
10

what this girl has gotten because what she went through her rent this to be raped twice yell at
least twice am but I’m thinking a as her parents I would be doing everything to get her some
kind heat treatment or something go and then I realized not everybody has that access I Case it
sounds like there was access but just so somebody thank okay you want it's her choice Yes but
yet when you reference point you're only reference point is your life if your life is filled with
pain then you think that that's never going to change and it's somewhat pains ever going to
disappear it always be a companion they can be won that too is fading into the recesses as the
years go by a I just think that I think we are in some incredibly evil times and I think that the
netherlands we're talking about a land that has absolutely zero moral compass if we're letting
17 year-old depressed kids killed themselves and there's been a strange absence I was I would
study a lot about this story earlier today him there's a very strange absence of her parents'
involvement in all of us that there's various us some pictures of her mom and I think her mom
would you describe her as this she was shot that her daughter had come to a decision that she
didn't want to live anymore no it's just how a parent can go along with that is what you said evil
but I also believe that in our country we are doing a lot of things legally to make life as
disposable as possible and in the wee hours are sending a message and wind when you send
messages from every possible angle that human life some the can just be disposed of like that
then you end up with as said zero moral compass and how just find this story very sad I find it
very disturbing and it is also a bit of a preview of message is all too prevalent here in our
country right now.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 6 • 1:50 AM

B_JUN_OREG_6

we want to end with hope. cody's mission was born from the lowest of lows. he is a well-known
suicide attempt survivor who has spoken openly, bravely about his struggles. but he says
recovery from depression might not look like what you expect. now he's a phd student at the
university of arizona. studying youth suicide prevention. we caught up with him at his family's
clackamas county home. >> one day I woke up and wanted to get out of bed and I wanted to go
do something. I wanted to be alive. it was amazing. I think I cried that morning. it was like is this
what it feels like? I forgot. [ laughter ] >> it's been a long six years for cody welty. >> forgot
what it's like to be happy. then it just happened. >> it's been six years since cody tried to take
his own life. things were different then. despite his happy home and good grades, cody was
depressed >> I thought I was the only one who felt that way. and I thought that because I was a
man I couldn't express any emotions. >> he talked about his high school struggles during our
first youth mental health town hall last year. >> it got to a point where I didn't feel like I had any
options. I didn't feel like I could talk to anyone. and I tried to kill myself. >> he survived and in
the years gifted to him as a second chance he is using what he's learned in life to teach others
about the importance of talking. >> going through thera and getting through this was probably
the hardest thing i've done. >> resilience. >> I don't know of anyone who would tell you it's easy
to do that or it doesn't take any practice. but I think that's where education is really important.
>> and knowing what to expect. >> recovery doesn't happen in this nice little straight line. >> so
everyone who struggles has their own good morning >> that day happens. it feels really, really
good >> as we mentioned, we are opening the conversation up on facebook and on twitter. we
11

just received a message from cody. >> I wanted to bring you this message. he's been watching
our live stream on our facebook page. and he has this message for everyone. we want to share
this. so, proud of everyone there, especially the brave and well spoken youth and my wonderful
family. thank you for hosting this event again. speaking of family, I’m going to turn it back over
to genevieve. >> I’m here with angie, cody's mom holding back tears. that was a surprise that
cody was watching. what are you feeling? >> I feel so much joy right now. honestly, to look at
all of you, you are like an extension of hope. and your arms out there that weren't there for us
six years ago. mental health awareness has come in six years is absolutely amazing. the support
systems that you guys all have in place and you are developing weren't there. and i've had the
privilege of working with galie ining clackamas county and working through a lot of things.
having cody go out and speak to teenagers. and see this wave of hope. and it feels good to sit in
this chair now and knowing that you are all taking the commitment. as parents, I’m just asking
you all to just be an extension of that. and don't make assumptions because your kid comes
home smiling and happy that they're not struggling. you need to have that conversation with
not just your children, with your other loved ones, anybody. the connection piece is so
important. because it will open the conversations for the future for anything that does happen.
and I think we just keep going on this track. and we just keep, I don't know, just bust it open
and just keep talking. >> thanks, cody >> i've talked with a lot of parents who are struggling,
who are probably in a similar situation to where you were six years ago. what advice would you
give them now? >> I would say educate yourself and get better tools. when we talk about the
generational changes, how we were raised is not how we need to work with raising you. we
need to be better educated.
AM 860
Jun 6 • 2:07 AM

B_JUN_OREG_7

we begin today with 8 really disturbing story out of the netherlands according to the
Washington post dutch teenager who suffered from depression and post-traumatic stress
disorder and anorexia after being raped as a child was allowed to die at her home persist
confirmed on sunday he was 17 years old and what she termed sad last post on instagram no
pop open 17 road Saturday she would be dead within 10 days but it's been so long she added
she really been alive after years of struggling and fighting it's over she wrote the teenager from
the city of darnah in eastern part of the netherlands said she stopped eating and drinking it
would soon be released because my suffering is unbearable her decision was not impulsive she
emphasized rather was the result of many conversations and assessments offering on blood
review of her condition she observed what I survive not even that I breathe but no longer live
was unclear whether her death come with involving doctors the assistance she at one point
requested she asked the need doctors an island aboard in the netherlands if they would help
her kill herself a spokeswoman for a member of parliament who recently visited her told dutch
news and genders to the death to be a result of the girls refusal to 8 the vatican nor her passing
wednesday morning on twitter they know his death is a great loss for civil society for humanity
we must always assert the positive reasons for life pope francis issued a separate messages said
euthanasia and assisted suicide are defeat for all where never to abandon those suffering never
giving up by carrying and love and loving to restore hope assisted suicide is legal in parts of the
12

united states as well as europe it depends on where you are what the rules are active
euthanasia is lawful only in places like belgium luxembourg and the netherlands the
netherlands legalized the practice of euthanasia in 2001 was the year they know what was born
the vote in that's how it was the culmination of a campaign according to the post the began 19
_seventy_ _three_ following the prosecution of a general practitioner and life her mother after
a cerebral hemorrhage but apparently paralysed death and mostly unable to speak the end of
life clinic in the hague where no had sought services spells out there are circumstances under
which doctors provide assisted dying requiring patients to clear an autonomous request and
enjoy unbearable an enjoyable suffering there must be no other reasonable solution patients
have to demonstrate understanding the consequences of what they're requesting doctors are
required to seek counsel from independent colleague was not familiar with the patient children
as young as 12 can seek euthanasia under dutch law but those from 12 to 16 must obtain
parental consent the united states you have to ask aging parents for some form of the group for
some form of permission to obtain an aspirin but apparently children as young as 12 can seek
euthanasia under dutch law once you pass 16 you don't need permission from parents who
seek physician assisted suicide the procedure account for 4 points 4% of all deaths in the
netherlands in 2017 a 66 100 cases that ru requests were granted most cases of untreatable
cancers few involves psychiatric distress so the the controversy broke out here is whether this
girl actually received euthanasia from the government or whether she simply stopped eating
the government refused to into baker refused to foresee her effectively know initially
approached the clinic last year without her parents' knowledge was turned away she was told
she was too young to die she said they think I’m too young to die she said I can't wait that long
because teachers instruct completed trump treating wait until her brain was more fully
developed a spokeswoman for the clinic did not return a request for comment to simply
unclear at this point what exactly the government's involvement was no had written a book in
that book she traced the origin of the mental anguish the age 11 she was assaulted in school
party again gathering of teenagers year later which is 14 she writes she was raped by two men
in the elder held neighborhood of arne m 4 years of the violation secret out of shame is only
years later her family learn what she endured after her mother came across a cachet of cash of
letters saying good-bye to loved ones truman too afraid to make a formal declaration to the
police we investor l the dutch lawmaker who visited no month before her death when jews
surrounded by family and friends in her living room said she was struck by a teenager strength
she told a guard lender it was nice to see her again all of the circumstances word surreal a
spokesman for westerwelle told the Washington post you know more about the circumstances
of the teenager's death the ministry of health welfare and sport did not return a request for
comment suffice it to say you do have to ask in this particular case why so many people who
believe as subjective perceptions of the value of human life is paramount why those people
would be upset about this this is I said I’m upset about this because I believe that they are
human beings haven't heard value human life has been her value and many here value is not
subject to the subjective perceptions either outsiders or the ascent of the person who's your
life we're talking about in other words if you decide to commit suicide of committed a sin
against yourself you are committing more acts against yourself and if you decide to commit
suicide in circumstances where a terminal cancer that is particularly true i've i've always said
when it comes to euthanasia I’m personally tour when you're talking about somebody who
13

has terminal cancer whose days away from death the truth is we have palliative care now
palliative care is something the doctors engaging on a regular basis across the united states and
europe basically somebody in the hospital they're going to die instead of putting them on some
sort of a life-saving assistance you basically allow the process to move forward and you haley
the pain so for example you give them morphine or something that's different from taking
active steps to kill somebody that would be euthanasia I think these in asia is wrong but he says
he arguing cases of terminal care when you're talking about a 17 year-old girl who suffers from
psychological trauma you're talking about an active grave evil from my perspective because
what you're doing is taking away the value of the human life and if the governor was complicit
in any way with this and this is or well million horror but the government was involved in and
frankly even if the government allow this girl to starve herself as well in horror because the fact
is that government was instituted to protect life liberty and property and life is not subject to
your perception of the value of life life is it of objected merit but here's the question if you
believe that life is a subjective value what's the problem here lies this sad girl that she wanted
to write an what aides it's sad I suppose she not I suppose it is sad obviously she suffered from
something so terrible but if you're on the left you believe that she when she got to decide the
value of rome life this girl then wow why exactly are you celebrating today the fact she made
the decision why are you celebrating the fact that the state facilitated the decision apparently
why are you upset today I understand being upset about the fact this girl suffered I understand
you being upset about the fact this girl was mistreated rate and all the rest obviously but is
there anything inherently wrong with the decision making on the part of the savings serious
moral question is does it go to an even more serious more question which is should reevaluate
life on an objective level or should we evaluate life and science.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 6 • 2:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_8

there was one central theme that seemed toy -- emerge. how connected -- connect
connectedness can go a long way. >> we need to do a better job of talking about it. >> the
studio was filled, students, parents, teachers and mental health experts talking about youth
mental health. many kids are struggling, and they let us know. >> it is important for kids to feel
like their voices are heard especially when they are in a vulnerable place. >> it is a lot harder to
be a teenager now. we are overloaded with information all the time. we are struggling and a lot
of us have a really hard time getting taken seriously. >> the issues vary, anxiety, depression,
bullying, thoughts of suicide. solutions are complex and not one size fits all. being more
connected personally and not just via social media is a key el element. >> I heard about the
importance of connection. chatting with other people and seeing each other. if we
acknowledged each other in the world, you would be in a very different place. >> if you would
like to watch the entire town hall you can go to our website, katu.com and we will be reairing
this on sunday morning at 8:30. live in news control, lincoln graves, katu news. >> steve: I want
to remind you that there is always someone available to help you through the tough times. call
1-800-273-talk. you can text home to 741741. you can find the resources on katu.com.
AM 860

B_JUN_OREG_9

14

Jun 6 • 2:30 AM
do you think anything wrong happened in the case of the 17 year-old girl in the netherlands
who decided to commit suicide and was not stopped from doing it by a statement she could've
been given treatment a lot of these cases some psychiatric treatment some medication is useful
suicide ality in many cases is treatable I won't do you think that anybody did anything wrong in
this case it was just a sad story because something bad happened this this young woman and
are happy because she got what she wanted in the end we do how do you feel about this if I’m
a gut level you hear that story when you say yourself state did something wrong the girls should
be protected scotia be alive today she 17 years old she's physically healthy there's nothing
wrong with her physically she just had been a victim of rape and PTSD by with the same people
the netherlands who are happy to facilitate her death I’m sure happy to let the rapist out for
years last you think there's something wrong with that out ask you why you think that maybe
it's because you actually down deep believe that there is no objective value human life her own
objective assessment of the value of rome what was not correct and when people are suicidal
they believe there was zero we're living at their assessment can be wrong but there's objective
perception of reality is not in fact reality if that's the case maybe need to reconsider how you
feel about the value of human life and human life exists and will coming up it's not just that
many members of the radical left tenants objected view of human life sometimes valuable
sometimes it's not up to you they also have a subjective view of signed and dated don't support
their positions than simply suggest that the data are somehow discriminatory.
AM 860
Jun 6 • 9:40 AM

B_JUN_OREG_10

there is legislation their intended to prevent youth suicides is set to become law what exactly
will this new law do of let's hear it may work no you suicide prevention has been on a major
focuses art newspaper and learned her newspaper chain saw the all year long so abby act
which is senate bill 52 require school districts to come up with a plan for how to dress and
prevent suicides among students the legislation is backed by the family of each dog a
transgender student at grant high school important to die by suicide in 2017 and business give
for funding to outreach programs mental health services how exactly are they hoping to stem
the tide of this it seems almost epidemic numbers about making the school districts have a plan
and come up with a plan and cruz the plan but it does tell them what the plan should be now
we know there are insufficient number of counselors and schools we know there's insufficient
training on students are going to be hey girl health crises those numbers I’m going to root for
the last decade or so so it doesn't have to have money for bed get it goes to the district still
requires districts to address the got a problem what if they have a problem with the u.s. centers
for disease control and prevention said in a 125 oregonians died by suicide last year with 4
organs oregonians ages 10 to 24 is the second-leading cause of death and so it is our increased
dramatically in the last decade in 2010 about 7 everyone under our audience between the age
of 10 before I die by suicide by 2017 at a rate nearly doubled to 14 people under 100000 I guess
that's what's so frustrating when you see your budget had seen in school districts quite often
school counselors are the first on the chopping block right counselors and librarians but know I
15

know we know that counselors librarians are keep students in school and sometimes counter
keeps students to help him get through the crisis you have their lives.
88.5 KNKX
Jun 6 • 9:45 AM

B_JUN_WASH_14

Americans are disproportionately more likely to be in jail as a result more likely to die in
northwest jails that's one of the findings of our series on jail deaths booked and very
generational trauma and discrimination put native americans more at risk for incarceration and
suicide libya correspondent austin jkins brings us the story of the northwest tribal member
whose daughter died in the watch can count jail warning the storing and contains a description
of suicide in her home on the lummI reservation near bellingham becae jefferson shows us
photos of her daughter this picture here shaman her daughter jane a another photo shows
shannon was true for sign the boys are nestled up against her her spirit is still around beautiful
spirit jefferson says her daughter was a loving mother and generous soul one example she cook
and clean for her tribal elders but she also struggled with depression and addiction she was in
and out of jail she lost her children to the states and then in february of 2014 she was arrested
for failing to appear in court 12 days later shannon hanged herself in an isolation cell in the
whatcom county jail and the mother of 6 was 36 years old even though it's been 5 years since
really hard for me because I have to watch children grow up without a month there shannon
jefferson was among at least 14 native americans who died in Washington and Oregon county
jails over the past decade our analysis shows native americans account for more than 4 and a
half % of jail deaths even though they're less than 2% of the population in Washington and
Oregon more than a third of those deaths were suicides according to the centers for disease
control american indians and alaska natives have the highest suicide rate of any racial or ethnic
group in the u.s. jail only heightens that risk all be very frank here this is a huge raise for
margaret ceivers as a professor of social work at the university of kansas who study american
indians who resides in jail we have not been successful do figuring out what it takes to help
native american people is said to be incarcerated and maybe a lot of them should be what do
we need to serve a taltz for care the things that incarceration steverson says ideally jails would
adopt culturally sensitive policy and procedures that would include designing health and suicide
risk meetings with cultural backgrounds in mind attorney ryan travis that would also like to see
that happen but he stands right now we're just not doing the basic care this muted he
represents the key jefferson in a lawsuit against one can count over her daughter's death
crevice grasses first jails need to ensure that channel health and welfare of inmates is being met
he offers an example we're talking about something as basic as before you how someone in
isolation you have them seem by much a professional to determine whether or not that's a safe
place for them travis kratz said that didn't happen and shannon jefferson's case just one of
several failures he says contributor to death in court filings the chief deputy for lichen jail
wendy jones said there was no indication the jefferson might be suicidal in an interview john
said she couldn't speak to the case because of the pending lawsuit she did say as y can county
has become more diverse her staff has become more culturally aware in the cake and I am all
the havoc for people harris mold I understand that people have faith we made sure we look at
we have our other aspects we need to consider jones says latinos followed by native americans
16

comprise the largest minority populations in jail and of deaths are rare they do happen in fact 3
years after cher and jefferson died by suicide her cousin paula jefferson also died in the watch
can jail the parent methadone intoxication apologize for his family did not wish to speak for this
story for vickie jefferson life changed forever after the death of her daughter she's now caring
for her grandchildren there many times I want to give I didn't I knew ahead beautiful children to
take care of jefferson recently agreed to settle her lawsuit against locke and county she says
she doesn't want any other family to go through what she did I’m austin jacobs and olympia
this is part of our ongoing series booked and bear raid a pp k know w in the northwest news
network contributed reporting to this project for more information northwest jail this visit our
website.
KBNZ
Jun 6 • 11:25 AM

B_JUN_OREG_11

reporter: alabama prisons have the highest suicide rate in the country, three times the national
average, 15 in 15 months. >> things are really out of control and. >> edo te b reined in. >>
reporter: she says mentally ill inmates, even those on e suicidhwatc areel hd in solitaire
assignment without ce acss to guards. he >> tety're lheting tm suffer, in some cases letting
them commit suicide. >> reporter: but it's not just the mentally ill who are suffered. a two-year
investigation found the conditions throughout the alabama prison system are counnstitutional
and that an ce examssive fount o violence, sexual abuse, and deaths happen on a regular basis
making the state's prisons a deadly place to work as well. >> I’m thankful I walk out alive. >>
reporter: this worker asked to be fully disguised for fear of being fired for speaking out. she said
the situation is dire. >> we need more people, more officers. mo re people are going to die. >>
reporter: state officials say there are approximately 1,400 officers, about half of what's needed
to oversee a prison population of 16,000. >> this has been a problem th eeat's bn 30ea yrs in
the ma king. or>> reporter: the commissioner says money has been appropriated to pay an
increased attention to mental health. why should people think things are going to change? >> in
the last years we've seen the coming together of several partners who are kr committed to
fixing this. >> the doj said the state is deliberately indiff aren't to the risks that prisoners face.
those words must sting. >> they do. and we've embraced that challenge. >> reporter: the
southern poverty law center has sued the alabama department of corrections. era fedudal jge is
forcing the prison system to make changes. keand lI the courts, the doj has issued an ultimatum
of its own. change or be forced to comply. too late to save billy thornton. >> why did you kill
junior? why did you all kill junior?
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 6 • 6:22 PM

B_JUN_OREG_12

I didn't view of what the appropriate solution to what is the an epidemic of gun violence in the
country and that uniquely american problem may have more than a 1000 people in this country
every year dying from gun violence or the day chris can't wait bus so those numbers up though
because you know it I know the numbers are pretty well two thirds of that number is suicides
and that go ahead well but if you say if we had good gun control than we would have many
17

suicides south korea actually has a higher suicide rate in america and have very stringent gun
laws there you're almost not allowed to own a gun as a private citizen so before we get to tied
up in that what the law change would have made a difference last week because the man who
shot all those people killed all those people was not precluded from buying a gun because of
domestic violence or felony conviction.

88.5 KNKX
Jun 6 • 6:41 PM

B_JUN_WASH_15

native americans are disproportionately more likely to be in jail as a result there are more likely
to die in northwestern jails that's one of the findings of our series on jail deaths book and bury
it generational trauma and discrimination put native americans more at risk for incarceration
and suicide libya correspondent austin jenkins brings us the story of a northwest tribal member
whose daughter died in the whatcom county jail warning this story contains a description of
suicide card in her home on the lummI reservation near bellingham becae jefferson shows us
photos of her daughter this picture here shannon and her daughter jane a another photo shows
shannon with troopers sunday as the boys are nestled up against her her spirit is still around
beautiful spirit jefferson says her daughter was a loving mother and generous soul one example
she cook and clean for her tribal elders the she also struggled with depression and addiction
she was in and out of jail she lost her children to the state and then in february of 2014 she was
arrested for failing to appear in court 12 days later shannon hanged herself in an isolation cell in
the whatcom county jail the mother of 6 was 36 years old even alaskan 5 years and it's really
hard for me because I have to watch children grow up without a mother shannon jefferson was
among at least 14 native americans who died in Washington and Oregoncounty jails over the
past decade our analysis shows native americans accounted for more than 4 and a half % of jail
deaths even though there are less than 2% of the population in Washington and Oregon more
than a third of those deaths were suicides according to the centers for disease control american
indians and alaska natives have the highest suicide rate of any racial or ethnic group in the u.s.
KOAB (PBS)
Jun 6 • 10:50 PM

B_JUN_OREG_13

woodruff: preview of a documentary on finally tonight, a children in crisiseagues at milwaukee
pbs, in collaboration w, produced by our coll ith the the documentary follows four"milwaukee
journal sentinel." young people from wisconsin, navigating mental health they've endured as
challenges. bullying, incarceration, and discriminasault, tion-- in some cases, through it all, they
have contemplating suicide. survived.>> I wrote a goodbye note when I I was homeless fo was
seven years old. lifr about three years of mys sad. I e, and it wawas being bullied in school as
well. >> I he ind ard the whispers beh hallways alone me. it was hard to walk down thery day. I
did it all day, eve with depression, I live and obs anxiety,essive compulsive>> as a tra disorder.
experiencensgender person, i've med anxiety because society has tried to make like someone
I’m not. I always feltn wrapped in red paper.a blue crayoling us. >> we >> stigma is kilour're
18

here to tell the sil stories. >> we're here to end around mental heence>> we're here to fight for
you.alth. hire... >> we'reu... that you're >> to tell yo not alo>> on ane. survey, about 2017
statentify as 1 in 50 students idee common among yo transgender, and it is morunger students.
>> in7, 201 1,772 children under died by suicide ithe age of 18n our country. I hope that >>if we
take diards kids thatferent approaches towtal illness and struggle with men look at what they're
go depression and take a better through.ings hard as it feels to >> are alone in all of think that
you' there's always somebody this, you're not alone, and as you. else that feels the same wayt
peand you might not know thathatrson, but I can tell you, ny of you're not alone in a struggles.
your mental health oodruff: you can find the >> w documentary and a disc milwaukee pbs'
entire their website atussion around children in crisis on www.milwaukeepbs.org. in crisis, we
encourage you to and if you or anyone you know is seek hor you can text the wordelp by calling
1-800-273- talk, "home" to 741741 on your mobile phone. and on our instagram page.
KMVU (FOX)
Jun 7 f• 2:30 AM

B_JUN_OREG_14

jesse: rachel who left the church in 2016 was doe claim she was a molester by her father from
8-16 but roy suffered other abuse has has a well. >> he kept roy in houses of hiding away from
the brothers and sisters. away from the family and made roy feel like he was a better person.
>> jesse: rachel said his father serving life in prison for sexually assaulting two separated his
mother from family members at an early age. it was the result of a confession way made to his
father admitting urges including attractions to some of his stepmothers who were around his
own age. rachel is adamant that roy loved his father and after he left the sect in 2014, he
reached out to her. >> he is still in the cold. he tried really hard to get in contact with his mom
and both siblings, but was never able to do so. >> jesse: rachel believes the separation took a
horrible toll on her brother. >> we went down to a wedding week before and I noticed he
watch the other boys, how well to communicate and get along because he had been cut from
the family. he had a harder time relating. I could tell that was emotional for him. I felt and I
noticed the standoffish and us. he easily had a feeling people didn't want to be around him. >>
jesse: even with all the suffering roy had been through, rachel said word of her brother's suicide
was a gruesome surprise. >> very shocked. very emotional. we really didn't expect that. >>
jesse: it was rachel and roy's brother, ray, who discovered the suicide after roy did not show up
to work or respond to attempts to reach him. >> ray went up and knocked but nobody
answered. when he walked in, he's all roy had hung himself. >> jesse: ray broke the agonizing
news to rachel who was tasked with telling the rest of the family. >> of course we don't get to
talk to they inside the pharrell diaz's colt but I let the brothers and sisters know. rachel said she
hopes family members inside the f lds church remember how much the ones who have left still
love them. but she said they are mistaken about their imprisoned leader. >> everyone in the
community knows warren jeffs is on capable of sinning and that he is a perfect man and I want
people to know the truth of what warren jeffs really was and what he did to us as children. >>
jesse: and rachel said she wants family church members to know the truth about roy suicide. >>
I know the family is going to believe the reason because he had left the church. I want them to
know the reason roy took his own life is because of the church. because of the colts. because of

19

what he experienced in f lds. >> jesse: funeral services for roy jeffs is Saturday and he will be
buried in Utah.
B_JUN_WASH_16

KONG-SEA
Jun 7 • 9:36 AM

welcome back to new day. coping with the loss of a child is extremely hard to imagine. but this
pain is very real for a lot of people. a woman's from everett whose son died from suicide.
sandra anderson joins us now to share her story. welcome. >> welcome. thank you. >> tell us
about your son kirk. >> kirk was an active and rambunctious child. he had a lot of attention. at
the age of eight he started having problems in school. he was sent to the office a lot. he
became a very vulnerable child. >> what do you mean by that? >> he just seem to be one that
the population might target. >> he was picked on? he was picked on. >> yes. and he was also
somewhat, he craved a lot of attention. so, he would go wherever he needed to go to get that
attention. >> what happened to kirk? >> well, my son died almost 30 years ago. he had
drowned. that is what the autopsy says. I don't know the circumstances of that. but I found out
after he died that he had been victimized by a family friend in terms of sexual exploitation. >>
the police came to me and >> how did you find that out? had me look at some photos. and I
identified him some of his friends in those photos. >> and how did they get those photos? >>
one of his friends turned in the photos. and they finally arrested the man. >> it is one thing to
lose your baby and then another is to scscer something like this and it is then impossible to
comfort him as you find out what is going on. but you have figured out how to write this story
and reach out to other grieving parents. what have you learned about living beyond the
tragedy? >> the biggest thing for me was to forgive myself and to learn how to let go of the
guilt and the shame of not knowing or seeing what was going on. literally right in front of me.
and, it took a lot of work. it took years of work and therapy and a 12 step program. and learning
to accept what was. what happened. >> when you decided to write the book, what did you
have in mind? >> I wanted to help parents deal with the loss of a child first off. but also the guilt
of thinking maybe they could have done something different and that their child might still be
alive. also, I wanted to help children and help kids who might be going to the same thing that
kirk went through to feel safe enough to tell somebody. so they don't have to carry that with
them. >> more than half of his life he carried that with him. >> this is a story we hear frequently
from parents. as I believe you when you say you did not know. there are things that we see
sometimes and we don't know how to interpret them. and maybe what you saw would not
have been your guests. there are chances for abuse like this to go on for years and years. and
bringing attention to that is really important. what have you heard back from parents and kids
about your book? >> I have heard that it gave them hope. I have not really talk to kids much.
that is the direction I have not gone yet. but I would like to talk to kids about having the
courage to speak up. >> and to know that there is a safe place for them to g we know that years
and years ago part of the problem was that they would not believe when kids would report it.
maybe the abuser was a trusted person and maybe the child believe nobody would do anything
about it. what would you suggest for parents and friends of young people, how they to help
them feel safe to talk with us. >> I think it is important to have ongoing conversations with your
children and really know who they are hanging out with.
20

B_JUN_OREG_15

FM News 101 KXL
Jun 7 • 4:14 PM

what allen just described happens about a million times a year and she was citing the 40000
gun deaths and I had a reminder that two thirds of that number of suicides to check out the
predictable well then if we got rid of the gun suicides go down I had to point out to our one of
the highest rates of suicide and the civilized world in the first world is not an american since
area where gun ownership is tightly controlled almost admitted to private citizens and yet they
have very high suicide rate getting rid of guns not going to solve the suicide problem that's two
thirds of that 40000 number that they like to throw around solar broke late hey allen thanks for
the work you do that the second amendment foundation and congrats on the success of your
book dancing in blood I think you picked exactly right title and a pre teacher time it thank you
lawrence you bet that alan gottlieb I’m always glad to have him again I do have a dog in the
fight I believe than owning guns my dad gave me my first downs when I was about 7 or 8 years
today you can't even do that for your child and your grandchild I own guns today yes there's
safely stored guest there illegally used and yes I we resent the idea that he abu ratchet it's
ready arthur's body then will be somehow addressing the problems created by criminals out
there thanks very much now I’m glad to have you with me glad to take your calls.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 7 • 7:14 PM

B_JUN_OREG_16

deb: middle aged white menopause have the highest suicide rate in the country. and between
2000-2016, there was a 21% increase in suicides among boys and men. this is according to the
american psychological association. >> lincoln: in today's sinclair cares, carl willis mass the story
of a professional race car driver's suicide attempt and why he's speaking out now. >> reporter:
despite the chaos that you see on the track -- >> we're battling against people and doors are
getting ripped off, and we're rolling down mountains. it gets crazy. >> reporter: professional
race car driver justin peck describes racing as being like medicine. >> the second I take my
helmet and put it over my face, it's like the world stops.all the chaos, all the junk, all the
negativity, all the whatever, goes away. >> reporter: peck has bipolar disorder. he experiences
intense highs and lows. including a very low point years ago. >> I found myself driving up a
canyon that i'd been to several times, just to unplug from the world. I grabbed my pistol and
loaded it and put it to my head and pulled the trigger. I heard this loud click. so I have shot
thousands of rounds through this pistol and it's never misfired. the one time it misfires it saves
my life. >> reporter: he immediately called his doctor to get help. something he'd hesitated to
do before that moment. >> I was quiet for so many years because it was an ego thing. I had a
mental illness. that must mean I’m walk. >> reporter: president of mental health america says
many men feel that way. >> men have been taught to tough it out when they're having
problems, and as a result, they sometimes try to tough it out for too long. >> reporter:
according to the american foundation for suicide prevention, men die by suicide times more
often than women. and accounted for nearly 70% of suicide deaths in garbage can.orter: and
through his memoir called "bulletproof" and a new partnership with mental health america,
21

peck hopes sharing his darkest moment will serve as a wake-up call for others. >> if I can save a
life, if I can save one from going up a canyon, it's worth it. it's worth it. >> reporter: for sinclair
cares, I’m carl willis. >> deb: experts say like carl's experience, most mental health crises are
temporary and will pass. if you need help, reach out now to the national lifeline at 800-273-talk
or text "home" to 741741.

B_JUN_OREG_17

KDRV (ABC)
Jun 7 • 7:15 PM

a new study is suggesting a way to limit risk of suicide among soldiers. researcher say limit their
access to a loaded gun. the study found soldiers who died by suicide were more likely than their
peers to own personal firearms. researchers note the odds of a suicide death was four times
higher with a loaded gun kept at home or one carried in public. the departments of defense and
human and health services funded the research. it's a part of an effort to better understand
suicide among service members. more than 1- thousand active duty u-s army soldiers have died
by suicide since 2015. for the first time in Oregon history, gov. kate brown has declared a state
holiday recognizing women veteran. women veteran’s day will take place on june 12. that date
also marks the 71st anniversary of the women's armed services integration act, which
acknowledged the great contributions made by women in the military and finally enabled them
to serve as regular members of the united states armed forces and reserves. [b7]women
veterans day-fs the director of the Oregon department of veterans' affairs, kelly fitzpatrick
released a statement saying in part, -quote- "we are proud of all women veterans in the state of
oregon. you are a vital part of the Oregon veteran community, and we will continue to work to
anticipate your needs and help you thrive in our state. thank you for your service to our
country.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jun 7 • 9:38 PM

B_JUN_WASH_17

a former Seattle super sonic is sharing his life story warts and all. >> james donaldson says life's
ups and downs have prepared him to help others escape the darkness. king 5's chris daniels has
his story. >> reporter: iconic buildings, streets, and towers. all sharing something in common
with james donaldson. >> i've been here just about 40 years. I graduated from wsu, go cougs.
>> reporter: he's stood tall at 7-foot 2. he was an all star in the nba, played for the sonics and
the mavericks and a 14-year career before settling back in a city that gave him his start. >> as a
small business owner myself. >> reporter: and building up a small chain of physical therapy
clinics. but the ball took a different bounce in 2015. >> one day I’m not feeling so good, and I
remember seeing the reception desk because I walked in, and everything went black. I had
emergency on the spot open heart surgery that lasted 11 and a half hours. >> reporter: he
almost lost his house, business, and his smile seemed to fade as well. >> all of this put me in a
deep, dark, scary place for a long time. I lost my purpose for living. my purpose of life. >>
22

reporter: he acknowledges the suicide of fellow cougar tyler holinskI prompted him to seek
help. >> that resonated with me in such a way because one, that's my alma mater, two I was a
student athlete on the same campus, and that just shook me to the core and said woah, wait a
minute, I have to get out of this thing. >> reporter: therapy and friends guided him out of the
darkness and gave him, he says, a perspective like no other. >> now I understand what mental
health is all about. >> reporter: which donaldson says relates to his changing city. >> we now
have some big problems, especially with homelessness, drug addiction, needles everywhere. so
I decided to run for Seattle city council, and I live here in district 7. >> reporter: donaldson filed
last month to run for the spot representing magnolia, queen anne, and downtown. >> the
prosecutor's office has become a revolving door. >> reporter: saying a new approach is needed
to the homeless response. >> we need more and more caseworkers out in the field and actually
engaging with our folks living in these tents. >> reporter: he wants more police reform too.
donaldson believes his every man message can connect with voters which for the former
ballplayer would be the ultimate rebound. in seattle. >> there is finally light now at the end of
the tunnel.
KTVL (CBS)
Jun 8 • 9:22 PM

B_JUN_OREG_18

high suicide rate the company in between 2000 to 2016 there was 21% increase in suicides
among boys and men. that's going to the american psychological association. a powerful story
of her professional racecar driver just in a suicide attempt and while he is speaking out now.
>>> despite the chaos that was the only track, professional racecar driver justin describes racing
as being like medicine colors >> the second I take my helmet and put it over my face is like the
world stops. all the chaos, all the junk him all the negativity, all the whatever goes way. >>>
pack has bipolar disorder. he experiences intense highs and lows including a very low point
years ago. >> I found myself driving up the canyon i've been to several times just to unplug
from the world and grab my pistol and unloaded it and put it to them ahead and I pulled the
trigger. heard this loud click so i've shot thousands around to the special and it's never misfired
in the one time it misfired is save my life. >> he immediately called his doctor to get help.
something he hesitated to do before that moment. >> I was quite for so many years because it
was an ego thing. I had a mental illness so that must mean I’m . >> reporter: present mental
health america says many men feel that way. >> men have been taught to tough it out when
they're having problems and as a result they sometimes try to tough it out for too long.
according to the american foundation for suicide prevention men die by suicide 3.5 times more
often than women and accounted for nearly 70% of suicide deaths in 2017. he still struggles
every day but that his friends, family and dr. help them through. he stresses that men thinking
about suicide need to get help now before it's too late. >> take your pride and take your ego
enter with in the garbage can. >> there was no more and a new partnership with mental health
america he hopes sharing his darkest moment will serve as a wake-up call to others. >> if I can
save life, I can save one going up the canyon it's worth it.
KEPR (CBS)
Jun 8 • 9:43 PM

B_JUN_WASH_18

23

a new study is suggesting a way to limit risk of suicide among soldiers. researchers say limit
their access to a loaded gun. the city found soldiers who died by suicide were more likely than
their peers to own personal firearms. researchers know the odds of a suicide death was four
times higher with a loaded gun kept at home or one carried in public. the study was published
friday in a medical journal. >>> the suicide hotline is there on your screen, hopefully it should
be there, the suicide hotline? there we go. if you or anyone you know needs it. the
departments of defense and human health or services funded the research. it's a research to
understand suicide better amongst its members.
FM News 101 KXL
B_JUN_OREG_19
Jun 8 • 11:09 PM
in the last hour I was talking about a movie I once saw is georgia remember film and we did it in
2010 at elite called crazy swerve and all of a sudden people started dealing with bouts of
insanity and deranged behaviors like suicides another took part in murder and rioting no one
knew why they found some external reason wine among the way what was his his secret but
what's odd is that I’m seeing some of the same behavior going on right now something
sociopathic something strange something haunting assault love and you know we see a pattern
you have to talk about these I have to talk about on this program because of the pattern is
something will stick out to me I want to figure out it's like trying to figure out why they happen
when they happen and and what is motivating this to happen so I did a story last hour about
david buck whose 6 year-old retired gay rights attorney what is he got up one day got dressed
walked out of the brooklyn house walked to a nearby park slope prospect park and made his
way to a stretch of grass email media outlets and he said the statement and that statement
basically mr cry it was is decrying humanities passive in the face of pollution warming and then
he basically sat down poured gas on himself and he set himself on fire one e-mail you wrote
most humans on the planet now read air made unhealthy by fossil fuels and he died early
guesses result it is he went on to say my early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing
ourselves was weird about the whole thing is he's he left a note to the first responders mursI
first personnel it said I am david buckle and just kill myself by fires protest suicide he wrote I
apologize to you for the mass alba family did not know what motivated him and why did it get a
distinguished legal career bear many do we was and they were hoping I guess he was hoping to
start some you know group he was saying he was a marker for global warming but no in the 24
hour news cycle he lost somewhere between similar investigation bombing syria so what he did
pretty much didn't make a difference and we have a guy a few days ago that was the lives in
Washington state and people were shocked and horrified because he went into the park set
himself on fire in front of their eyes as they are now grouped he walked across the open bar
just calmly set fire himself walked calmly down the parkway the lips right of Washington d.c.
mall secret service officers as well as u.s. park police officers rushed to extinguish the flames
they administered emergency aid but 85% of his body burned so in the dying but what bothers
me is that if you go online isis takes walking calmly through the park on I like nothing was bob
no screaming no help me walking calmly always burning and it's not clear like good to took his
own life tmz claimed he was on the loose regions something days later a passenger car into the
southwest traffic win kansas city douse himself acres scene and himself on fire according to
24

police no motive cited some say was a political move but course he was sent to the hospital in
critical condition at a florida woman stabbed yourself 3 times with a kitchen knife and told
responding officers president trump was to blame officers found the unidentified woman
standing outside her home in palmetto florida leading former has legs and face according to a
partially redacted report she had done because she said she was tired trump tied his presidency
tired of a country and heat this this is what we're seeing we're seeing this pattern is nothing
new I mean there are people who've committed suicide others a suicide pact her family in
argentina where a father a mother killed one of their children they have a child survived
because they were afraid of the end of the world and it warming and what's ironic about all this
is that there's going to be this big display in Washington d.c. where they're going to bring in a
doctor about any of the bad lesions from the yale school of medicine.
B_JUN_OREG_20

KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 9 • 12:22 PM

deb: we want to end with hope. cody's mission was born from the lowest of lows. he's a wellknown suicide attempt survivor, who has spoken openly, bravely about his struggles, but he
says recovery from depression might not look like what you would expect. now he's a ph.d.
student at the university of arizona. studying youth suicide prevention. we caught up with him
at hismily's clackamas county home. >> one day I woke up and I wanted to get out of bed and I
wanted to go do something. and I wanted to be alive. it was amazing. I think I cried that
morning. it was like, is this what it feels like? I forgot! >> deb: it's been a long six years for cody.
>> I found out what it's like to be happy. it just happened. >> deb: it's been six years since cody
tried to take his own life. things were different then, despite his happy home and good grades,
he was depressed. >> I thought that I was the only one who felt that way. and I thought that
because I was a man I couldn't express any emotions. >> deb: he talked about his high school
struggles during our first youth mental health town hall last year. >> it got to a point whir I
didn't feel like I had any options, I didn't feel like I could talk to anyone. and I tried to kill myself.
>> deb: he survived, and in the years gifted to him as a second chance, he's using what he's
learned in life to teach others about the importance of talking. >> going through therapy and
getting through this was probably the hardest thing i've done. >> deb: of resilience. >> I don't
know of anyone who would tell you it's easy or doesn't take practice. that's where education is
important. >> deb: and knowing what to expect. >> recovery doesn't happen in this nice
straight line. >> deb: so everyone who struggles has their own good morning. >> that day
happens. it feels really good. >> deb: as we mentioned, we are opening the conversation up on
facebook be and on twitter. in fact we just received a message from cody. >> lincoln: I want to
bring you this message from cody. he's been watching our live stream on our facebook page.
and he has this message for everyone. we want to share this. "so proud of everyone there.
especially the brave and well-spoken youth and my wonderful family, thank you for hosting this
event again." speaking of family, I’m going to turn it back over to genevieve. >> genevieve: I’m
here with angie, cody's mom, holding back tears. that was a surprise that cody was watching.
tell me,re you feeling right now? >> I feel so much joy request right now. honestly, to look at all
of you, you're like an extension of hope. and your arms out there that weren't there for us six
years ago. or mental health awareness has come in these last six years is absolutely amazing.
25

the support systems that you guys all have in place when you're developing weren't there. and
i've had the privilege of working with gallI and working through a lot of things, having cody go
out, speak to teenagers, and see this wave of hope. and it feels good to sit in this chair now,
and knowing that you are all taking the commitment as parents. I’m just asking you all to just
be an extension of that and don't make assumptions because your kid comes home smiling and
happy that they're not struggling. and you need to have that conversation with not just your
children, with your can other loved ones, anybody that -- the
connection piece is so important, because it will open the conversations for the future for
anything that does happen. and I think we just keep going on this track. and we just keep, I
don't know, just bust it open and just keep talking. >> genevieve: thanks, cody. i've talked to a
lot of parents who are probably in a similar situation where you were six years ago. what advice
would you give them now? >> I would say educate yourself and get better tools. when we talk
about the generational changes, how we were raised is not how we need to work with raising
you. we need to be better educated, we need to know better tools, we need to have better
ways of listening, learning what it is that you all need. not what we need or what worked for us.
today. we need to get better educated. and this type of town hall on this, you have to be -- it
doesn't matter who you are, it touches every walk of life, we all need that skill set as much as
you need cpr for the person who collapses, you need mental health cpr to work on every aspect
of your life in that area. that's what I would say. >> genevieve: angie, thank you so much. I
appreciate it. incredible. great to hear from cody.
KEPR (CBS)
Jun 10 • 8:40 AM

B_JUN_WASH_19

middle-aged white men have the highest suicide rate in the country--- and between 2thousand to 2016, there was a 21-percent increase in suicides among boys and men. that's
according to the American psychological association. carl willis has the powerful story of
professional race car driver justin peck's suicide attempt-- and why he's speaking out.
package:"nats of driving" despite the chaos you see on the track..."we e battling against people,
doors are getting ripped off and rolling down mountains, it crazy right? professional race car
driver justin peck describes racing as being like medicine..."the second I take my helmet and put
over my face, it like the world stops all the chaos, negativity, junk, whatever, goes away. peck
has bipolar disorder. he experiences intense highs and lows-- including a very low point years
ago."I found myself driving up a canyon I been to several times to unplug from world" "I
grabbed my pistol, loaded it, put it to my head and I pulled the trigger""I just heard this loud
click""I have shot thousands of rounds thru this pistol and its never misfired, and the one time it
misfires, it saves my life "he immediately called his doctor to help--- something he'd hesitated
to do before that moment."I was quiet for so many years because it was an ego thing- I had a
mental illness, so that must mean I weak. aul gianfriddo, president of mental health americasays that many men have that same concern. "men have been taught to tough it out when they
e having problems and as a result, they sometimes try to tough it out for too long "according to
the American foundation for suicide prevention... men died by suicide 3-and-a-half times more
often than women... and accounted for nearly 70- percent of suicide deaths, in 2017. peck says
he still struggles every day-- but that his friends, family and doctor help him through. he
26

stresses that men thinking about suicide need to get help now, before it too late. "take your
pride, take your ego, and throw them in the damn garbage can "and through his memoir, called
bulletproof, and a new partnership with mental health America-- peck hopes sharing his darkest
moment will serve as a wake-up call to others. "if I can save a life, if I can save one person from
going up a canyon, it worth it, it worth it. for sinclair cares, I’m carl willis.
AM 860
Jun 10 • 4:15 PM

B_JUN_OREG_21

I want to get to that stephen a robbery because we have spoken about this before his piece all
american despair in rolling stone magazine this is post our website and it it's one of those
pieces that thankfully can open your mind I think to have two very significant american problem
I would imagine everyone was listening to this right at this moment knows somebody or at least
those of somebody who has been impacted by suicide and whether it's for a father or brother
or sister cousin or queens it's one of those things where it's a national epidemic right now and it
seems to me it did calls attention stephen robert to a broader national epidemic which is
undiagnosed mental illness because right now we have a homeless problem I mean that is just
devastating all across the country the numbers are unbelievable I just was hearing last week
that the city of New York spending 369 million dollars a year trying to put homeless people in
hotel rooms in hotel rooms I and the homeless epidemic is apple has a great deal to do with
untreated mental illness v all the mass shootings that we have virtually all of them that they
don't have to do so much with terrorism as they do with severe mental illness untreated and
now o at work when you talk about suicides this especially 8 aren't we better at being able to
treat the kind of depression that often leads to suicidal ideation.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 10 • 6:19 PM

B_JUN_WASH_20

it is national mental health Waco Most Carlene Johnson has more on the important message
for man leading to father's day on a fragile time sick is the vice president of men's health
network their main message for men of all ages going to the doctor is not a bad thing many
men of void those doctor visits at all costs which leads to and dying of treatable diseases like
colon cancer and heart disease depression and suicide rates are on the rise for almost all age
groups that included package Tom success for men it's about getting them to seek help open to
let them know it's OK to talk I’m here to defend or tell them that if you notice they want tock
and encouraged them to join the kind of online a work group or a forum where they can
anonymously Post messages and ask questions in case they have that feeling Oh I don't want
anybody to know it made the rate of suicide highest in middle-aged White man.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 10 • 6:34 PM

B_JUN_OREG_22

I don't have a personal connection to doctor assisted suicide but I happened to have my
broadcast studios in the state of Oregon which was believe it or not the first government on
27

planet earth to official late legalize a doctor helping to kill a patient by providing medicine I
thought it was a bad idea at the time as I saw how it actually worked know sometimes things
look good on paper and then they don't work very well in practicality it looked even worse after
I saw action so I saw this piece by dr. brian callous serve as a professor of medicine and an
academic hospitalised and the director of the world medical education program at the
university of nevada reno about we've got to talk to the doctor. thank you very much for taking
the time tonight I picked my plan you are always great you know this is the thing I’m
concerned about because when people haven't seen how doctor-assisted suicide works and
most of the people grab the kids forward I don't even like being called doctor-assisted suicide
although that was originally their term for they'll say well gosh is great because we're help
people in terrible pain there near the end of their lives and maybe we can help them take their
lives their suffering will be relieved and day and maybe the suffering of their family members
and friends will be relieved as well they think it sounds good on paper I’m afraid that this this
trend is going to spread across the country and potentially around the world then it will be
done for all the wrong reasons what your take on that laura I think you're absolutely right and
now first of the my old disclaimer out of the way any of my views are my own and certainly not
necessarily those universe that being said I think we a team just what you experienced in
Oregon become a reality the proponents of business big group pushed him to his very wellfunded compassion & choices they go around the country in all the state legislatures like
they're doing in my state of nevada right now and saying everything's just fine and dandy in
Oregon and they prayed up you people they recruit but very death after death experiences of
my heart bleeds for them but they don't tell you up front it doesn't have to be that way I think
they made crayon these people motion look of their emotions and bad experiences and say this
is all great we've never had a problem in Oregon we'll that's true you know it's you well know
when the parade these people a with the pain and suffering the drumbeat over the facts don't
bear that out these statistics from your state showed that 20 years of doctor-assisted suicide
only 20% of the patients who done it published a cane or even 8 future concern of pain make
forever the question of the reason for requesting the pills the majority have the patience and
more than 10 minutes over 20 years the reason for their burden the family loss of enjoyment
usual activities and also the timing of those are terrible social problems we need to address
some of the last time I checked with her terrible reasons to carry yourself good that being said
no one other than that if you're a 29 18 we have the ability to education medication and
training how to control your pain the very here and we don't know how long you're going to go
we give a terminal diagnosis our ability to protect life expectancy the terminal the unions'
positions the notoriously back but maybe good the diagnosis we were terrible at say how long
you going to go you know 18% of hospice patients nationwide which is that change 6 months
threshold 18% I could I could I possibly could they thought that the prognosis fact i've friend
whose mother is quite old she's in her 90s and she was on hospice for a while and I asked him
the other day acid so how she doing is the end coming up he said no she's actually been taken
off of pospisil he's doing just fine I said wall that must have been a nice surprise but but on the
other hand what she said while time to check out and and that's the other pieces peas that
never seems to get explained by the reporters who are covering this and that is we're really
bison week medical science in my country is very very good at what they call a palliative care
that is making sure that no one has to suffer painfully as their suffering from me what will be
28

perhaps sunday a terminal disease but they may have years and years ahead of them and if you
say well but what if they just don't like they can't play tennis anymore they can't they don't
leave the house much anymore they can go on walks anymore is that a good reason to kill
yourself most people would hope if you poll them on that would say no not be able leave the
house I mean yeah we all like to believe the house played tennis go hiking or whatever if he can
do those things that's a reason to kill yourself and yet as you point out it seems to be the
majority reason people killed themselves it you're absolutely right and you know sadly what I
pend national medians people used to talk about in my circles about your wife shape and then
it became years of quote quality life saved now I’m hearing people say years of productive
whites say that proof sad commentary society it your granny with all with them and love and
that relationship she has with you if somehow no longer valuable.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 11 • 6:35 AM

B_JUN_WASH_21

we get calls from all over the united states from kids to say can you help me I need I need I just
gotta get out of this right now and suicide is not 8.4 30 job suicide we see it after midnight
when that when it gets dark again and all my longer kids are struggling when they should be
stephen a they they they they can't speak they're just too depressed he we go into homes in
the middle night knocking on doors looking for young men and young women who have text us
our other people would refer to could check on johnny could check on susI she's really
struggling mark so we have the bus own doors to find them and some of the homes we have to
go into there's 25 people that live in that house 20 find this post accept that I was just a kid I
was like 10 or 11 I had come back from school I didn't live here indigenous youth of the highest
suicide rates in the country more than 3 and a half times the national average one person you
reached out to you've gone is 18 year-old sky goings he opened up to me about his first 10 I
was bully to the point where add brooke granderson broken wrist and it just got to the point I
no sauce she my body like this they don't even know me then I was playing even having it
because I know was well I’m not gonna choose the best I could if I hit if I’m continue down
this path and I thought about it I sat there on to playing knows I was home alone from january
to june alone we had 4 for 6 months we've had 200 and 75 attempts my cousin came running
david or to check on me and I remember him looking at me with a complete turn his eyesight
was even me he was looking at and that's what really hurt because if that had been my mom
that are entering and you know that I just couldn't do it anymore I mean look here yes the
suicide rate is high but worse saving lives the left and right and I don't know when it's going to
change because we just kind of go from one era to another.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 11 • 12:55 PM

B_JUN_OREG_23

native American I had country is where the only non-native owned national outlet that has a
desk fully devoted to the coverage of Indian country and almost all of us on the tribal affairs us
our tribal citizens but there's a there's a lot of misconception lot of stereotype a lot of man I
think with them with this is a topic of missing and murdered indigenous women and girls
29

Wasn't particular there are a lot it's a lot of victims and community blaming I can't tell you how
many times I've seen a story about a suicide epidemic and reservation that is attributed to
ghost spirits I would look to marginalization disenfranchisement colonization I would look at
those things further reason why the suicide rates are high not a ghost or spirits I also see a lot
of things that researchers classifies violent language we're talking about missing murder the
women and girls things like syria year who is a really great prolific scholar and writer on this
topic I hear her say this all the time interviews that we marginalize these women more and
more because we say well you know she should have been running around that guy should
have been out drinking she is a drug addict whatever excuse you want to throw into their it's an
excuse not to prop properly investigate that and so we see that furthered perpetuated by the
media coverage I also think that media said the national media particular has a really poor job
of what we call parachuting into an area had been in-country and only their only job there to
cover tragedy that's another thing I always tell me organizations will ask how we do this better
don't show up in trouble community to cover the bad things when I had sought a member of
the Cherokee Nation grew up in Norman Oklahoma my Oklahoma history class pretty much
started with landry right so at the native American journalists Association we are constantly
kind of talking about the fact that we're making up for these gross an act that an adequate
season our public education system like you mentioned earlier less than 30% of native
Americans live on reservations where a very urban people and I think it's important to
remember that Walt the historical trauma is it is a part of our history is indigenous people know
indigenous person wants to be defined by and so I think when you are seeking out that
information go find writers of color who are who are putting their thoughts out there and don't
necessarily look here native friends to answer all those questions for you because it's not really
their job it's not incumbent upon indigenous people to teach you how to not be racist was
Gramley brewer computing editor for tribal affairs the high country news Jennifer boys
campaign share of missing and murdered indigenous women.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 11 • 3:06 PM

B_JUN_WASH_22

Native Americans make up less than 2% of the population the general population in
Washington and Oregon according to our findings they represent more than 4 and a half % of
jail deaths what this tells us what this reinforces is marion studies that showed native
americans as a result of generational drama and discrimination experience higher rates of
incarceration higher rates of chronic disease and higher rates of suicide to members of the
lummI nation who died in the watch can county jail over a period of 3 years we're also cousins
would you tell us their stories it's really remarkable to think and to members of the same tribe
to members of the same family dying in the same jail so we go back to 2014 shannon jefferson
she's been in and out of jail many many times nearly two dozen times she struggled with drugs
am so very familiar % the trail this last booking she was not flagged for any mental health issues
even though she did have a history of mental health issues she gets into a she's assaulted
sexually assaulted while she's in jail according to her lawyers or the family's lawyers she was put
in solitary confinement for her own protection and and shortly after that she tied a bed sheet
to the window for isolation cell she hanged herself she's 36 years old the mother of sex I should
30

say that the to hit the jail's chief deputy in court document says she found no indications the
indian ocean in jefferson's past behavior while in jail should serve to alert staff to the potential
for suicide but this is now the subject of a lawsuit that is in the process of being held to a 2014
skip ahead 3 years to 2017 her cousin paula jefferson is booked into walking county jail a drunk
driving charge the day after she is found dead of an apparent methadone overdose or
intoxication she was 48 and mother for and I was just walking county how representative would
you say you want to count is of the rest of our region less sick with like and just for a moment
since 2008 our findings are that at least 8 inmates have died in that jail 4 of them by suicide at
least 3 of them where native american again that's according to that we put together a
database of jailed us over the last decade crosse Washington and Oregon in this is a jail it is
overcrowded falling down even the jail has questioned the sorry even sure if there is question
whether he's running and constitutional acceptable facility so it's really a problem played
facility and the voters there reporter turned down levees to build a new facility that's the watch
and county picture a politician and jefferson were among at least 13 native americans who
perished in Washington county jails between 2008 and 2018 we found suicide accounted for
about a third of those deaths illness was the next most common cops and what austin some of
the things researchers believe could held said if you go back to 2005 so more more than a
decade ago to 15 years ago pair of researchers including a professor of social work at university
of kansas and margaret wrote the papers the first of his kind report on american indian suicides
in jails and what they found it are indications that native american inmates tended to be less
candid when asked by jailers about their physical and mental health as well as possible drug or
alcohol use the researchers attributed this in part to a reluctance to answer intrusive questions
so but especially in mental health they also suggested that if the officer is a white person he or
she may represent an authority figure who may symbolize longstanding oppressions there
might be a double because of two reasons for not answering candidly to the screening
questions when you're booked into jail the report suggested that suicide risk assessments when
people have been brought into jail should be tailored the cultural backgrounds of inmates the
that might be more effective than just one size fits all screenings this researcher murder-suicide
pact also said this is her quote we have not been successful in figuring out what it takes help
native american people if they're going to be incarcerated she had maybe a lot of them should
not be because this whole issue about diverting people away from jail has been locked up the
states we've been talking about this with kate o'dell.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 11 • 6:54 PM

B_JUN_WASH_23

now a story from radioactive k u w journalism program for teens if you've ever been online
you've probably seen plenty of memes kermit the frog drinking tea that's a famous one these
are often humorous but there's a darker side of internet memes that focus on depression
radioactive is a hero lee has seen a lot of them she started to wonder if they help people cope
with mental illness or if they were cries for help as a lot of time on social media to keep up with
my friends and family but also to entertain myself and school there my feet looking at cooking
videos dance practices cat videos but what I find most interesting I mean this whenever final
that I really love it and share it with my brother, he is one of my favorites from a compilation of
31

students from the acting class from the 90s I don't need france they disappoint me internet
means and photos phrases videos that people show online but there's a whole nother world
means with the hashtag depression that can take on a whole new meaning we ought to you the
kid yourself get killed I have crippling depression I didn't think too much these means and I
came across one about suicide that's when I started questioning whether this is really good way
to deal with my depression say shush doctor and mobile a postdoctoral fellow d.c. san francisco
and looked at a few of these depression means together and then and this one which is a
fashion and depression me at the same time yeah with yes it has a funny we had fun born
shared one meme I got a different reaction concern is and so announced to different the
mental health problems is my anxiety explaining to my depression they can kill myself I don't
know what happened after I die oh wow I think they see about one 0 yeah that's the probably
resonates with a lot of people who have anxiety and depression me and yet another example of
one that's that's kind of funny but also pretty darn these darker means to be a bit disorienting
but still somehow enjoyable but certain to think a lot about the people on the other end who
create and share these means I worried about what they needed help not ask dr vocal but the
negative aspects of these mean communities I think the issue there is if people brain problems
are concerns others set their peers might not how the expertise sir the maturity to handle so
for example if somebody is really in crisis said maybe their experience seemed suicidal ideation
if they're talking to another group of teenagers online about that those teenagers might not
necessarily know how to help them it could be really overwhelming for them I think it did feel
overwhelmed when I like these post and shared their means I thought about the anonymous
person behind account how they were doing in school with family life and possibly coping with
men on it's I knew I had to step away from these names and had to tell my brother my decision
since we like to shame these means together I never it comes to his name I can see why you
thought I’m so wouldn't that be there I mean that not be spending unlike my brother I know I
keep seeing these means I’ll keep worrying because they can't always share those people out
there I getting the love and support they need so I unfollowed most of the accounts and push
myself to find new ways to gain relief when things get too much I’m slowly starting to fill my
notebooks and again with my ramblings and writings and replace gus got hair and jesse cohn
and song but they want to feel like I’m in another place very active and alI bhutto drama on an
object gone on for more radioactive stories subscribe to the radioactive podcast.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 11 • 11:07 PM

B_JUN_WASH_24

young adults attempted suicide in the past year now there was the Trevor Project is a suicide
Prevention in crisis intervention organizations for LGBTQ youth it released a report this is
actually today on the mental health of a weird young adults results in this thing may see are
pretty horrified to be honest with you again one of 5 LGBTQ people ages 13 24 one and 3 trans
gender and non-binary young people in the same age group attempted suicide in the past 12
months approximately 39% of LGBTQ youth survey had seriously considered suicide in the past
year now one of the things I want to really talk about this article was in the huffington Post but
the thing that stands out if they talked about how it's important to note that the LGBTQ youth
are not at higher risk of suicide because of their sexual orientation or gender identity Here's
32

were why they're higher risk they are at higher risk because they face harmful we jetson and
discrimination from france families and communities it Yeah and we don't I never shared this
one story but the first experience that I had with hate with homosexuality was my cousin born
and the one time at night I was in the car with my mom and we're driving and you know how
you younger this particular places we're going to go who and I notice I’m like Wow we're going
toward my mom's job or 26 in california down in Chicago I don't that's where the jail's car and
she had me not a good idea to see jimmy waiting car Indiana after a while she had worn came
out and he came out he was all he was he had bloody bloody and everything's faces all messed
up and any gets in a car we get a car ask what happened to my mom said be glad the clock she
did I didn't know what happens in the end I heard my mom talking to friends maybe a week
later and it come to find out and then when I got older I get asked about come to find out warm
was in a fight and his dad D got but he went to jail for doing it he would jail because the guys
said that warn hit on him so my cousin warm was is on you he was homosexual passed away
when I’m saying is that was my first time maze of seemed the in such situations we've come to
find out is warm would have to be head bed more than once in maine so Aereo's you go back to
this story right here we start talking about one in 5 you know young adults better homes are
having problems in the LGBTQ community because of family and friends and acceptance Yeah
acceptance is the key word right and we this is this is Jalen & a situation that starts from the
outside I’m talking about I’m talking about Let's say like a young gay kid it's very cool
themselves right until people start telling him something wrong with them you're not right
you're not worth as much as other people you're Europe made fun of and beaten up and what
that's why these kids are thinking about suicide and committing suicide and this is exactly why
we have pride month this is why June is gay pride month because it gives all of us a chance to
tell that community tell that group of people like your cool the way you are you were when we
were here Friel were in this with you were celebrating use the very thing that at one point
probably hated about yourself and been beaten up for war and ridiculed for that very thing that
specific thing we're going to hold up and we're going to celebrate it because that's part of who
you are and you're cool and that's so important.
KOBI
Jun 12 • 8:59 AM

B_JUN_OREG_24

we're learning more this morning.... about a standoff we first told you about last week in eagle
point. according to eagle point police... brian compton barricaded himself inside a home on
Sarah park circle... and threatened to blow up himself and officers. police say Compton was
"extremely agitated" and was believed to be under the influence of an unknown substance.
police say he previously made "suicide by cop" threats to officers. after a search warrant was
served ... officers found no evidence of gas tanks or detonation devices on or near the property.
he's now on jail on several charges including disorderly conduct and stalking.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 12 • 12:03 PM

B_JUN_OREG_25

33

Portland police are investigating the death of a person who was homeless and founded a rocky
bute Park last month according to police notice gully junior black trans woman was found
hanging in a tree near a homeless camp the medical examiner ruled his death a suicide but
police opened an investigation this week after the victim's family told media about potential
witnesses and video of the incident Khalis family and friends suspect there might have been
foul play police are asking anyone with information about Eli's death to call the Department.
News Radio KEX
Jun 12 • 1:03 PM

B_JUN_OREG_26

Police are asking anyone with information about apparent suicide come forward with
information may 27th police were called to death on northeast rocky view road they found 31
year-old otis going was later identified as transgender the medical examiner determine the
cause of death to be suicide detectives have been in contact of gullies family they want anyone
else with information about the case to contact detectives about the process.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 12 • 3:05 PM

B_JUN_OREG_27

according to police a escalation here a black trans woman was found hanging in a tree near a
homeless camp the medical examiner ruled his death a suicide police opened an investigation
this week after the victim's family told media about potential witnesses and video of the
incident tell his family and friends suspecting may have been foul play going sister Crystal Holm
says police have been slow to investigate they're not doing what they're supposed to my
brother was suicidal he would have had personal harm himself he's never harmed show in
history com and no one around him every day the best number than police are asking anyone
with information about Ali's death called Department.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 12 • 3:30 PM

B_JUN_WASH_25

a new report out today shows that deaths of despair from suicide alcohol abuse and drug
overdoses have reached an all-time high now the U.S. researcher David Bradley says suicide
more likely in the Western part of our country well over doses are more prevalent in the East
this really is a gate and regional epidemic and I think if Rhodes acknowledged that we're be
much more likely to be able to get a handle on how to create and mitigate these rates of
increase that really mind-blowing West Virginia had the highest drug overdose death rates
fueled by the opioid epidemic they went up 5 450 per of the poor under 50% in the last 50
years.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 12 • 3:36 PM

B_JUN_OREG_28

34

He spent some time in jail and that he had the authority authorities beat him moon and again I
only got to speak to him briefly at the detention center you have a limited amount of time in
which you can visit way folks there in documents like it a lot more detail about what happened
to him at least he told border officials what happened to Hannah he said that said the
skinheads there are 6 of them that's beat him kick down to the grounds of some drug charge
term for not russia then I also had more details about what happened to him in jail he said
that's kid didn't beat North of that and that they had been handcuffed them and hide them to
do them their roofs there us through we are on a rope with whom and so jumping ahead
obviously it's very clear why he would be seeking asylum and it was denied and you met him
shortly after he had been denied and he had gone on a hunger strike and that how would how
did he seem overall for someone in that circumstance He looked a little thin but non it's nuts
that you know he looked a little fan and he looked subdued he looks like he was resigned to his
fate and he insisted that's he would not go back home and that he would rather die me here in
the next States and go back home and fact that is what happens he seems very serious very
Earnest about what he was saying and said he even talk to me about some of the
environmental key concerns I had about his home land he said that the russians were allowing
pollution to fester there and he was upset about that was another reason he is pushing for
independence weighty tell you about I’m so sorry era just the limited time we have is what he
tell you about his treatment you add ice itself at the scene at the detention center itself you
know he didn't really make a big point about that he was more focused on that look I came
here for asylum I have good reasons for seeking asylum I don't understand the process I don't
understand why I’m being denied asylum ands and that is the main focus he he I think he did
complain to the activist more about his treatment there but is he was relieved singularly need
focused when he spoke to me about gaining asylum and getting out and he was no put and not
in solitary 80 confinement to let in more than more than once you what was what did you find
out about how he actually died he was in a cell by himself and he hung himself he may collect
team bed sheets and tearing them apart and making some kind of parade out of them and hung
himself that way and apparent lee he had been sitting in a cell alone for at least 20 minutes
when what the guards found them they were doing checks assault carrying in unison they
found them ands it was all very confusing because that first everybody was denying that he had
and had to I was saying that's how he was on life support MBIA by everybody and mean ice the
folks I was speaking to banks and but in fact set of documents show that's it she authorities
citing his death from the beginning he when he was transported to a hospital nearby the put
the nurse there told please that's the belief was that he was brain dead which is medically and
we believe the opponent of is being dad and eke she said there would be a doctor in all just to
come by and which tax for any brain activity and said no two days later they were still
unresponsive and thought to be brain dead on on on on on the third day be confirmed that all
tests came back with nothing he was brain dead and they announced his death we learned
about his death until weeks later we just have about a minute left I understand we're still
awaiting the official investigation into his death to be released from your reporting was there
anything I could have done to prevent his death was preventable death I don't know if I can
answer that's I talked to one of the guards who was part of the team who rushed down to I
don't I in find them and he claimed that they had done everything it possibly could cut what I
can say is that's he was on suicide watch at one point and they took in mosu aside Wash and
35

still put him and unify himself and misses were offended It is this is all you know October
November within days and weeks one another that this is happening and so one question I
have as a reporter is why in the world woo I suppose it's people whore on suicide watch horror
at risk for suicide in solitary units and that's something that they're known to do not and often
much I appreciate your reporting on this and coming on to talk to us about elI thanks so much
for having me.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 12 • 11:52 PM

B_JUN_WASH_26

more Americans are dying from suicide drug overdoses than alcohol than ever before a new
report by the Commonwealth fund says the rates of so-called death of despair around an alltime high the highest fatal dose D rate certain West Virginia Ohio and Pennsylvania people in
Montana the Dakotas Wyoming Nebraska and Oregon Dianna higher rates by suicide.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 13 • 2:00 AM

B_JUN_OREG_29

steve: a neighborhood was rocked by a murder-suicide. the killer escaped justice by killing
himself. katu's lincoln graves is live to explain this one. lincoln? >> reporter: steve, justin
pullman will spend 60-days in scale -- in jail and two years on probation. he is not accused of
directly harming anyone, but he did illegally transfer the gun used in the murder. this was the
scene in March of 2018. a west land neighborhood where best knee shook was found dead
murdered by her ex-boyfriend who then killed himself. murder. >> this was my only child. we
had a small family of two people, beth and me. and now I am not even considered to have a
family anymore. I am no longer a mother. >> reporter: they were in a marion county courtroom
to confront justin coalman before his sentencing. >> I guess I just got a little off path for the
moment. I am ashamed to even know or say I knew dave. >> reporter: he had no part of the
murder and was a licensed firearm dealer. he didn't follow procedures like a background check
in transferring ao him. >> the final horrifying minutes of my beautiful daughter's life were spent
looking at justin coalman's scoped rifle. i. >> colean can no longer sell guns and he is barred
from owning guns from -- for the rest of his life. lincoln graves, katu news.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 13 • 2:07 AM

B_JUN_OREG_30

a Portland family tonight is asking people to take a closer look at their son's death. the medical
examiner says he died by suicide. but his family talked to kgw news about why they believe he
was actually murdered. >> he was laughing. cracking up. >> reporter: it is her favorite precinct
with her brother. >> I don't want a wear a dress. >> reporter: childhood memories do little to
soothe the pain since he is gone. >> nobody should have to go through this. nobody. my
daughter and my son told me they found his body. >> reporter: May 27th, police found the 31year-old dead. the medical examiner's office ruled his death a suicide. his family says that is
36

hard to believe. >> there was nothing, you know, suicidal about him. he was in good spirits. he
was happy. >> I know he did not commit suicide. no doubt about that. >> reporter: his mom
says her son was diagnosed with bipolar schizophrenia and he was transgender and homeless.
she worried about his safety. >> mom, I can't stay. you know, he would go back out there. he
was hanging around a crowd I was concerned about. >> reporter: it is one reason family
members don't believe he took his own life. they hoped investigators would dig deeper instead
they felt officers wrote them off. >> is it because she gay, black, homeless that the police didn't
want to deal with it? it is a human being. >> reporter: police are asking the public for
information and/or video related to his death. they also stressed the medical examiner's office,
not police, determined the cause of death. she hopes it leads to justice for her brother and
closure for her mother. >> I want her to get the answers that she needs. >> reporter: she says
people who knew him reached out to tell her they believe he was killed. even giving her a name
of a suspect. police are hoping those people will talk to officers about what they saw. we know
it could be tough to hear stories like this, we want you to know if you or someone you know is
struggling with thoughts of suicide you can find help 24 hours a day. 1(800)273-8255.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 13 • 9:05 AM

B_JUN_OREG_31

Portland police are asking for information about the recent death of a member of parliament a
black transgender community aimed at the latest now from k excels pat boyle teeny goalie was
found hanging in a tree a rocky view last month the medical examiner has ruled suicide her
family thinks it was murder this week police say they want to hear from anyone with
information or even video evidence the family talk of kgw nothing you know suicide abadI he
was he was in good spirits teased mom says she was diagnosed bipolar schizophrenic was
homeless she was worried about the crowd he was hanging out with boy.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 13 • 4:13 PM

B_JUN_WASH_27

more now on the lawsuit against ohio state University ABC Ryan Murray reports 16 a long knife
filed a federal lawsuit alleging ohio state University officials knew about abuse allegations
against Dr. Richard Strauss but did nothing to stop him University investigation concluded the
former sports doctor sexually abused at least 177 young men from 1979 through 1997 he
committed suicide in 2005 this is the 5th pending lawsuit against the school the attorney for
the along nice says his client wanted to wait until after the University's investigation released
on Dr Strauss before filing the lawsuit.
AM 860
Jun 13 • 9:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_32

the number of deaths from suicide drug all doses an alcohol has reached an all-time high in the
u.s. reporter Jim group joins us live from los Angeles with the chilling statistics it appears some
states are harder hit than others tim oh yeah you're talking about places like Virginia west
37

Virginia and fact in west Virginia it's nearly 50 days or 100000 residents that how much that is
that that has grown with and deaths per 100000 residents back in 2005 here we are 2017 58
why I have the 5 fold increase in west Virginia by far but they've made worse by this crisis you
have ohio another state with it sharply increased suicide rates opioid overdose rate so it is very
it is becoming a crisis and the people are still trying to wrap their heads around and figure out
what is causing the public health emergency in to touch that degree yeah and this stands out to
me so much for that report saying Americans are now at greater risk of dying from opioid
overdoses than car crash I mean it's just down me yeah left part of this new study the be opioid
crisis in fact there are many faiths to our working to stem the tide of prescription opioids in fact
here's what's called an alternative in a fight I gotta I of the lost my computer me but there are
alternative to opioids programs bay may place of Colorado have an official alternative to opioid
and they've seen their suicide rates they're opioid allowed overdose rate dropped 36% so that
of pain killers prescribed has opposed opioids in least in the state of Colorado as reduce that
we've seen increased trade and in the event that Ohio west Virginia Pennsylvania also so maybe
there are other states that will pay with of colorado's lead on this with often used opioids we
saw a report where Michigan Illinois and Wisconsin also considering a similar all kinds of
programs so that's one way they is prescribing different painkillers event highly addictive
opioids yeah drug supplier definitely one way to start taking a look at this public health crisis
any discussion of down to other aspects of dealing with this seches better mental health
treatment or even access to mental health treatment the bad air that has been one of the
biggest issues here when you look at the factors that especially when it comes to the suicide
rate a mental health at the issues we still a stigma on mental health off the willard aren't
reaching out and trying to get health of from developers also relationship issues financial issues
of these are the factors that are causing of people become addicted are the to commit suicide
so those are all those factors that are involved in again there's not anyone hard and fast it
factor for the increase in suicide rate 5 at bats that those are a few of them anyway but the big
proponent youth is the mental health issue the map for large that's a large issue or
complication that spans so many different things not just suicide rate but almost raping and all
that other stuff yeah mental health is definitely something that is being considered and how
often to turn the are the perception of mental health in this country yeah seems kind of
abstract in kind of tough to deal with the problem you know when you compare to say making
cars that are safer and so fewer fatalities as opposed to something that is it's you know just so
nebulous it probably is part of the problem and very expensive to fix yeah manning you're
absolutely right about that and I like the word abstract because we've really gone lee is do you
do that hey you know we have been dealing in this country with this opioid crisis for a long time
we have been dealing with the contagion factor for suicide to especially after high-profile
suicide so when you add all those together you see need to increase their so again that speaks
to the mental health aspect of things there are of social media as a factor awe there's so many
things that surround of the increase in death rates in america that again you can point your
finger at anyone think so how do you how do you attack from what you attack a star with the
opioid addiction alternative opioid prescribing different kinds of pain killers you think you be
decreased the stigma of mental health and let people know that if you break your mind go to
the hospital hey if you break your brain goes hospital to I expect the same kind of thing no
mean to be flip about that but that's almost the way we need to think about it that mental
38

health that is the same as physical health we have to be able to be okay with going to a doctor
about it so these are things that are being considered not that they have to be legislation about
it but they definitely have to be education.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 13 • 9:30 AM

B_JUN_OREG_33

transgender black and found hanging from a tree her family refuses to believe this was a suicide
case excels pat boyle joins us live in a 24 7 newsroom with the latest on the investigation 31
year-old otis goalie identified as female was td golly she was homeless diagnosed as bipolar
schizophrenic teased mom tells kgw they think somebody was responsible for her death in
rocky bute park last month said they tried to share information with police but police just wrote
them off the mom says she was worried about child safety my case stay in no time I need to go
back out there he was hanging around the crowd I was concerned about this week police now
say they want to hear from anyone who may have info or video evidence about td gurley's
death.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 13 • 7:30 PM

B_Jun_OREG_34

the family of a transgender woman claims Portland police wrote them off as they question the
ruling her death as a suicide excels pat boyle reports police are now asking for your help in the
case police issued a news release this week asking to hear from anyone with info or even video
evidence concerning the death of td goalie a black homeless transgender woman found
hanging from a tree at rocky doot park last month teased mom talk with kgw I know he did not
commit the outside no doubt about that she said she was concerned about the people he was
hanging around with the 31 year-old had been diagnosed as bipolar schizophrenic.
KEZI (ABC)
Jun 13 • 9:35 AM

B_JUN_OREG_35

Maine governor has signed the state's recently- passed assisted suicide bill. it allows physicians
-- under very specific circumstances -- to help people take their own lives... it was approved by
both chambers of the state's legislature. when governor janet mills signed the bill into law
yesterday (Wednesday), she also signed an executive order directing state authorities to
"carefully monitor" its execution gov. janet mills (d) Maine it is my hope that this law, while
respecting the right of personal liberty, will be used sparingly, that we will respect the life of
every citizen with the utmost concern for their spiritual and physical well- being, Maine is the
eighth state to legalize some sort of "death with dignity" legislation.

39

AM 860
Jun 13 • 10:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_36

Maine is become the 8th state in the country to legalize assisted suicide correspondent pat
piper with more democratic governor janet mills was on record saying earlier she was unsure
about the idea is to allow doctors to prescribe fatal dose of medication to anyone diagnosed is
terminally ill and the measure failed in a statewide vote as well as 7 times in the legislature this
time the bills says obtaining or administering life-ending medication is not suicidal under state
law it does require a second opinion by consulting position.
News Radio KEX
Jun 13 • 10:44 AM

B_JUN_OREG_37

Facebook wants to pay you or access your boat again a new program called Facebook study the
company says it will pay users in exchange for data about exactly how and when they use their
phones including which caps they've installed in the amount of time spent using those apps
they want to know where the users located what device serious anymore the company says it
promises michelle the same information they were taking without us knowing before another
trying to get on the right side of that issue is what's going on well the company said it is
promising not to sell in the datta that gets to third parties or used to target ads but rather use it
to field and better products and yet as zuckerberg story coming up yeah but I wonder if the
next big shoe to drop I heard a couple people bring this up is this is the social media as a health
problem a national health emergency with suicide and depression and all this stuff yeah and if it
does go down that road when you get the road to get lawyers and courts involved right nl back
get some really ugly territory that Facebook might be on the hook for things I actually wouldn't
think fair a home in terms of how much they're causing depression suicide and many millions or
billions of dollars in payoffs that this just the just playing taken my information someone two
people lying about it I screw you Facebook if they don't that's so Facebook might be next year's
roundup right exactly billions of dollars it's wow or you could make a pretty decent case like
you say will go too far his deal where there are attorneys there is excess but it yeah wow I will
be interesting to watch attributes thought marshall phillips jr started getting shelled the
conscience of the and I mean it it bears which now owns the mon santo writer roundup they
own the route and yeah if they're on the hook for billions of dollars because people have cancer
on a loop and most of former cured or at least you know it's in remission and there may be 4
maybe done brian that the science is kind of iffy on it if that's worth billions of dollars what they
are sky rocketing in the rate of teen suicide I worth right exactly I don't know well of course you
can't hold Facebook responsible for the entirety of society especially because there aren't that
many 13 year-old on things how an individual parents there with a very cheerful sad story
about their 13 year-old committed suicide self-injury get the jury how much money they will be
worth a lot yeah certainly could be annual so wall street journal I haven't heard this just in
vietnam it would seem from internal emails within Facebook that old mark r. herbert was only
casual interested in following degree the agreements they come to with the government about
privacy protection that sort of thing we can get into more detail a little bit on your money as

40

well the shock absolutely nobody but Zuckerberg knew about some highly questionable privacy
practices and was fine with them and again for cooperating with the ftc.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 13 • 11:05 AM

B_JUN_OREG_38

Police are asking for information about the recent death of a member of portman's transgender
community we have the latest here from k tells pat boyle teeny goalie who was black was
found hanging from a tree at rocky bute park last month a medical examiner ruled a suicide but
her family thinks was murdered and this week police say they want to hear from anyone who
has info or even video evidence the family talk of kgw that thing you know I feel excited about
making good favorite tv mom says she was diagnosed by polar schizophrenic was homeless she
was worried about the crowd he was hanging out with he go he was 31 years old.
News Radio KEX
Jun 13 • 11:11 AM

B_JUN_OREG_39

It's amazing at rates of death from suicides drug overdoses and alcohol abuse every to an alltime high in the u.s. they've been increasing for a while now and in states like west virginia ohio
pennsylvania have highs in fact west virginia is the worst in 2005 west virginia ahead of suicide
rate of about 10 persons for every 100000 in 2017 with nearly 50 8th persons for every 100 $
he's always been the over overdose there out those aren't very suicide rate suicide rates have
increased 10 30% to nationwide a lot of that is because cajun factor what the the researchers
are saying that high-profile suicides prompt others to commit suicide the mental health issue is
another and pump and and then you add to that the be opioid addiction situation and there are
some states like who think winners in northern california city I think it's oakland there maybe
that head coach the colorado as the opioid alternative program where instead of opioids being
prescribed for pain relief it is and that alternative pain killers about non addictive opioid sofia
related wild I I’m afraid we're out of time but the gym roof west one news correspondent jim
thanks a lot appreciate it I have more information on the story if you like it yeah boy would that
that's something I mean I realize I think I said this last year when the numbers came out but
they continue to go up u.s. death rates from suicide alcohol and drug over doses reach all-time
high the bad it should be getting more attention than whatever trump and the latest thing is
about the the muller in only other crap we talk about well it was really crazy about this is you
have states that have two or 3 times the suicide rate of other states mom and only economic
based we think wow how did I mean like there's a crazy high suicide rate in the idaho montana
mean been the is the economy is doing great in those states I mean it that's it it's funny the
states are label so I am drawing on my elementary school and also putting together a puzzle
with my kids recognition of the shapes others states but crazy high in nevada in colorado
always which one is the hand that pets is both south and north dakota and west virginia on but
then you've got crazy high well alcohol abuse rates in those states tool appear really close
parallel have a drug overdose wow the northeast in the industrial midwest hom with the opioid
overdoses in in numbers that are huge to old so it's kind times the rate of some other states
suicide rates have risen 30% since 2005 to and it's going faster the increases getting across the
41

steeper on a crap is why it is that shouldn't that be the only question we're addressing his
nation shouldn't be that they shouldn't that be the story on it okay losing major newspapers
and websites all the time instead of squabbling over trump this trump that is that is that proof
we're not really very serious society 30% increase in suicide and anima time and say it's
increasing faster and faster I don't know a whole you know I think it does put a lot of people
wanting to claim its economy and how people are feeling left out the nominee I don't think it's I
think it's demeaning in your life it very shall society we've become very materialistic you can't
live that way to be miserable right I think that's absolutely true you combine that with social
media which is the greatest engine of comparison with other people but never existed c can
constantly minute by minute compare your life of other people's lives and we're talking earlier
about a stadium a study housing that people are thrilled with their house unless there's a
bigger one on the block they think the house is too small same house on the next block that's
the biggest house on the block they're thrilled with it it's perfect all about comparison we
talked about effect we've posted armstrong getting not a common thing fascinating video an
experiment with a couple among he's trained you give me a rock I give you any a sliced
cucumber long he's thrilled give iraq they get to keep cover their loving the cucumber then the
the monkey that those monkey baby gives iraqI give it a nice juicy grape suddenly the other
monkey that get a cucumber is enraged I mean attacking the researcher in grade get it has to
do with comparison envy and the politics of envy if you noticed a little of that in politics these
days somebody else is getting more and you're getting screwed I think that may be as it is a
brutal lee irresistible fundamental characteristic is primates have who let's talk more about that
we come back now like to hear on the text line what's your theory why is suicide up 30% in a
few years in america I just said this should be maybe the only thing we discuss and if it if it
people are killing themselves should themselves hang themselves whatever their nest sizing
themselves point of death right with with pills or drugs or alcohol what's your theory for one 5
to 9 5 kate ftc actually like a figure 4.5 to 9 5 k ftc more discussion on this coming up.
AM 860
Jun 13 • 11:17 AM

B_JUN_OREG_40

the importance of mental health and wellness and here is why the number of deaths from
suicide drug overdoses than alcohol has reached an all-time high in the u.s. reporter jim group
joins us from los angeles with a chilling statistics and it does appear jan some states are harder
hit than others oh yeah you're talking about places like virginia west virginia and in fact in west
virginia of its nearly 58 per 100000 residents of that how much bad that that has grown with for
10 deaths per 100000 residents back in 2005 here we are 2017 58 wise about that the 5 fold
increase much but I think by far the thing if the worse by this crisis the you have ohio another
state with sharply increased the suicide rate opioid overdose rates so it is very it is becoming a
crisis and the people are still trying to wrap their head around and figure out what is causing
the public health emergency in and they could touch the truth to that degree yeah this stands
out to me so much for that report saying Americans are now a greater risk of dying from opioid
overdoses than car crash I mean it's just a down waited yeah that's part of the study but be
opioid crisis save factor many they too are working to stem that the to hide it prescription
opioids in fact here's what's called an alternative in a fight I gotta I of just lost my computer
42

screen but there are alternative to opioids programs hey may place of Colorado have an official
alternative to opioid and they've seen their suicide rates there are opioid it allowed overdose
rate dropped 36% so the other pain killers prescribed has opposed opioid.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 13 • 3:02 PM

B_JUN_OREG_41

A Portland family asking investigators to take a closer look at their son's death. the medical
examiner says he died by suicide but as kgw's laurel porter shows us, the family believes he was
murdered. >> he was laughing. truck it is crystals favorite picture with her brother, otis. >> and I
said I didn't want to address. >> reporter: childhood memories do little to soothe the pain her
family feels now, since otis is gone. >> nobody should have to go through this. >> my daughter
and my youngest son showed up and told me they found his body. >> reporter: May 27. police
found 31-year-old otis gully dead on rocky butte. the medical examiner's office rolled his death
a suicide. his family says it is hard to believe.>> there is nothing suicidal about him. he was in
good spirits. he was happy. >> I know he did not commit suicide. no doubt about it. >> reporter:
otis his mom said her son was diagnosed with bipolar schizophrenia. he was also transgender,
and homeless. she worried about his safety.>> you a mom, I cannot stay. and he would go back
out there. but he was hanging around at crowder was concerned about. >> reporter: it is one
reason family members do not believe otis took his own life. they hoped that investigators
would dig deeper into the case. instead, they felt that officers wrote them off. >> is it because
he is gay, black, homeless, that the police did not want to deal with it. it is not fair. is a human
being. truck on Tuesday, police issued a new statement asking the public for information, or
video related to otis is death. they also stressed the medical examiner's office and not police
determined the cause of death. crystal gully hopes at least for justice for her brother and
closure for her mother. >> just want her to get the answers she needs and to treat her son like
she was a human like he was a human.>> that was laurel porter reported. any time we talk
about the possibility of a suicide, expert stress, if you or somebody you know is struggling, and
thinking about suicide, you can find help 24 hours a day. the phone number is on your screen.
802 73 8255. 800 273 talk. >
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 13 • 6:40 PM

B_JUN_WASH_28

more than a year ago, a neighborhood south of Portland was rocked by a murder-suicide. the
killer escaped justice by killing himself, but now someone is going to jail for playing a role in
that crime. Justin Coleman of Salem will spend 60 days in jail. >> he's not accused o of directly
harming anyone, but illegally transferred the gun used in the murder. >> reporter: that was the
scene in March 2018. a neighborhood where Bethany shook was found dead, murdered by her
ex-boyfriend that then killed himself. in court her friends and family finally got to talk about her
murder. >> this was my only child. it was beth and me, and now I’m not even considered to
have a family anymore. I’m no longer a mother. >> reporter: they were in a Marion county
courtroom to confront Justin Coleman before his sentencing. >> I’m ashamed. >> reporter:
though Coleman had no part in the murder and was a licensed firearms dealer, he didn't follow
43

procedures like a background check in transferring a gun. >> the final moments of my daughter
were spent looking at the barrel of the rifle sold by Justin Coleman. >> he can no longer sell
guns or own a gun for the rest of his life.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 13 • 8:00 PM

B_JUN_OREG_42

The lgbt q community is reeling after learning that police are digging into the death of a black
trans woman. it happened last month at a public park. the medical examiner originally ruled the
death a suicide. >> family of otis gulley pushed back. homicide detectives are listening. maggie
vespa joins us now. they are stopping short of calling this an investigation. >> police just
clarified that within the last hour or so, they have spoken to the family and they want
information from anyone that has a. it is not an open investigation. the family just want
answers. they referred to the victim s their son. friends refer to her. the body was found on --.
the medical examiner ruled it a suicide. family pushed back, wanting a broader investigation.
they say she had been homeless in dealing with mental health issues. she would not have taken
her own life. staff at the center, a resource for the community are helping the family. the point
to read of violence against transgender people. one study shows more than one in four is
assaulted in their lifetime. rates are higher when you narrow it to transgender people of color.
staff was working toward getting permanent housing but said no landlords would rent to her.
while the investigation moves forward. days ahead, of the pride parade they wanted to
highlight that part of the story. >> we can talk all about whether it was death by suicide or
whether she was murdered. the barriers that denied her having a full life. that is what killed
her. >> god loves everybody the matter what they walk in, what color they are. everyone
deserves the right to be protected and to have fair treatment. >> we know it can be tough to
haves -- hear stories like this. matter the cause of death or result of police work. we want you
to know if you or someone you know is struggling, you can find help, 24 hours per day. the
number to call is 273-talk.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 13 • 8:21 PM

B_JUN_OREG_43

representative Seth molton has upped the on a crisis we never give enough attention to -mental health. he has a comprehensive plan to address it. in an op-ed he reveals he suffered
from ptsd. as a former marine serving four tours in iraq, his revelation was poignant and deep.
in his comments he underscored the fear of telling his friends and family because he didn't
want to be seen as broken, damaged or stigmatized. his mental health plan includes things like
routine mental health check-ups and funding yearly mental health screenings for every high
schooler in the country. the congressman is on to something. the leading cause of
homelessness is mental health. 1.2 million individuals living with mental illnesses sit in jail and
prison across this country. on on average, 22 veterans die by suicide every day. the rise of
anxiety, depression, and suicide in school-aged children shows no signs of stopping. this is
personal for families across this country, including mine. my baby brother committed suicide at
12 years old. I never got to see him go to prom, graduate high school, or college. his mental
44

health robbed him of a future. let's get to the point. it's time to destigmatize mental health
across this country. our leaders need to understand its impact and focus their efforts on
addressing this silent but deadly threat. >> now here's a different point of view. >> democratic
candidate for president congressman seth mole from Massachusetts may not be polling very
high, but he is attempting to bring awareness to the important issues of mental health and
post-traumatic stress in our country. molton, a veteran who has described his personal bouts
with post-traumatic stress has proposed an expansive plan to mandate screening for mental
health issues for high schoolers and for our veterans. this is a unique lane for molton to occupy,
one that has to be filled by members of both parties. we should be doing all that we can to
ensure that our men and women of the military and our students are able to contribute to
society and live their lives in a healthy manner. but you cannot solve this problem by throwing
money at it. you have to improve the capacity of our institutions to handle the workload. the
trump administration has made modernizing the v.a., promoting continuity of care, and
improving the overall quality of emanuel health care for veterans a priority. the money molton
is proposing to spend should be going towards furthering those efforts. here's the bottom line - kudos to molton for tackling something that is personal and has colleagues on the left have
not yet worked on. however, I believe the mental health crisis in our country can be better
served by giving the trump administration more time to continue its work on this important
front.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 13 • 8:21 PM

B_JUN_WASH_29

representative seth moulton has touched on a crisis we never give enough attention to, mental
health. in an op ed he revealed he suffered from ptsd. as a former marine serving four tours in
iraq, his revolution was poignant and deep. he underscored the fear of telling his friends and
family because he didn't want to be seen as broken, damaged or stigmatized. his plan includes
routine mental health checkups and funding mental health screenings for every high schooler in
the country. the congressman is onto something. the leading cause of homelessness is mental
health. 1.2 million individuals living with mental illnesses are in jail and veterans die by suicide
every day. the rise of suicide in school aged children shows no signs of stopping. this is personal
for families across this country, including mine. my baby brother committed suicide at 12 years
old . I never got to see him go to prom, graduate high school or college. his mental health
robbed him of a future. let's get to the point, it's time to destigmatize mental health across the
country. >> now here's a different point of view. >> congressman seth moulton may not be
polling very high, but he's attempting to bring awareness to the important issues of mental
health and post-ttraumatic stress in our country. moulton is a veteran with PTSD and has
proposed a plan to have mental health screening for high schoolers and our veterans. this is a
unique lane for him to occupy, one that must be filled in our discourse by members of both
parties. we should do all that we can to assure our men and women of the military and our
students are able to contribute to society and live their lives in a healthy manner. but you can't
solve this problem by throwing money at it. you have to improve the capacity of our institutions
to handle the workload. the money he's proposing to spend should be going to what's
furthering those efforts.
45

FM News 101 KXL
Jun 13 • 9:02 PM

B_JUN_OREG_44

the family of the transgender woman claims Portland police throw them off when they
questioned the ruling of her death as suicide police issued a news release this week asking to
hear from anyone with info or even video evidence concerning the death of td goalie a black
homeless transgender woman found hanging from a tree at rocky do park last month tedious
mom talk with kgw I know he did not commit no doubt about that she says she was concerned
about the people t he was hanging around with the 31 year-old had been diagnosed as bipolar
schizophrenic.
KING-SEA (NBC)
B_JUN_WASH_30
Jun 13 • 9:10 PM
a war veteran who stunned the political establishment last fall when he suddenly dropped out
of the race for kansas city mayor to deal with his PTSDis now speaking out. jason kander was
pursuing his political ambition, even as he quietly struggled with the demons of war. in a
conversation today, he opened up to me about that struggle it's been eight months since you, I
think, shocked a lot of people with your announcement so I think it's fair to say, how are you
doing? >> I get that a lot. I appreciate it. I’m doing a lot better it's worth it to get treatment. it's
been really worth it for me. >> reporter: since his deployment to afghanistan 12 years ago as an
army intelligence officer, jason kander has struggled with depression and anxiety. >> I went
almost 12 years without a good night's sleep. I mean, just violent nightmares every night. I kept
telling myself, you know, I should not be dealing with this now. I should feel better by now. >>
reporter: though he often traveled off base into unpredictable situations, he didn't see action
>> it was a big part of why I would always explain to myself that that can't possibly be what it is
I never wanted to claim something that wasn't mine. I never wanted to act like I had done more
than I had. >> reporter: when he returned home from the war, kander entered public service
and was poised to become kansas city's next mayor, until -- was there a moment she that said
i've got to get out of this race, I can't do this? >> yeah, it was in the kitchen and me crying
pretty unkroebly I wasn't crying because I had to get out of the mayor's race it was just the
realization, like, oh, I got wounded over there. come on! >> reporter: he put life over ambition,
dropping out of the race and getting help. >> it feels like admitting weakness, but the truth is, it
takes more strength than anything. >> reporter: so, what was going on with you? I mean, were
you having suicidal thoughts >> yeah, I was and a big part of why I made the announcement I
made is because they had gotten worse than they had ever been. I read somewhere where
somebody said that either you deal with your trauma or your trauma deals with you. >>
reporter: like many veterans, kander signed up after 9/11, supported by his wife, diana, who
would eventually realize PTSD can be contagious diana, we think of PTSD as something that one
person suffers with, his issue. >> yeah. >> reporter: it's really your issue as well, isn't it >> if you
live with somebody with PTSD and they have all the symptoms that they have, you can't help
but be affected by it, and it affects spouses, it affects children. >> reporter: together, they made
the decision to speak out is this just one more act of public service to the extent that other
people have gotten the same wake-up call >> yeah, I think it's the most important thing i've
ever done in public service, probably the most important thing I’ll ever do. >> reporter: for
46

kander, politics remains on hold. right now, he has exactly what he wants and needs. >> I’m
getting to make up for lost time being a dad and trying to be a superdad we have a t-ball game
on Saturday. I’m the coach, which is something I never thought I was going to have the chance
to do. that's the stuff that I’m really excited about. him well >> we certainly wish his message to
others who may be suffering in silence -- don't ignore the feelings, they are real, go and get
treatment, he says we'll take a break.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 13 • 11:50 PM

B_JUN_WASH_31

Maine is the 8th state to legalize assisted suicide for people who were dying. Governor Janet
Mills signed the death with dignity Act into law Wednesday is my whole the law while
respecting the right to personal Liberty will be used sparingly that we respect the life of every
citizen with the utmost concern for their spiritual and visit will the law allows patients with
terminal illnesses to ask for medication that will end their life main joins California Colorado
HawaiI Oregon Vermont and Washington new Jersey and Washington D.C. in legalizing the
procedure.
KTVL (CBS)
Jun 14 • 8:17 AM

B_JUN_OREG_45

Representative seth moulton touched on a crisis we never give enough attention to: mental
health-and he has a comprehensive plan to address it. vo in an op-ed moulton revealed he's
suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). as a former marine serving 4 tours in Iraq,
his revelation was poignant and deep. in his comments, moulton underscored the fear of telling
his friends and family because he didn't want to be seen as broken, damaged, or stigmatized.
ameshia oc moulton's mental health plan includes things like routine mental health checkups
and funding yearly mental health screenings for every high schooler in the country. the
congressman is onto something. vothe leading cause of homelessness is mental health, 1.2
million individuals living with mental illness sit in jail and prison across this country. on average
22 veterans died by suicide every day. the rise of anxiety, depression and suicide in school-aged
children shows no signs of stopping.ameshia oc this is personal for families across this country,
including mine. my baby brother committed suicide at 12 years old. I never got to see him go to
prom, graduate high school or college. his mental health robbed him of a future. volet's get to
the point: ameshia oc it's time to destigmatize mental health across this country. our leaders
need to understand its impact and focus their efforts on addressing this silent but deadly
threat.boris ocameshia, throwing money at the mental health crisis in our country is not going
to solve it. coming up, my thoughts on seth moulton's mental health proposal.
KINK Radio
Jun 14 • 8:55 AM

B_JUN_OREG_46

We have a cop near phoenix enron little who responded when a 26 year-old I was about to
jump off an overpass that must be so scary for the gop and then having here not too long ago
47

that happened too many times from fortunately the guy already climbed over a fence and
would have fallen on to be busy highway he let go home him but run managed to talk him
down and saved his life first run radio dan and told staff the bridge because I was scared guy
then he told the guy's name and offered him a hug if you climb back over the fence and get
talking about a hug for about 5 minutes I thought look the guy vision climb back over got a big
hug as promised and cried a little long run shoulder and then there's a video of the police
department posted that shows them walking off which together as crazy you think about
somebody willing to take their life and only needed to not do that was hard to know another
human being there's some bridges here the signs of them suicide prevention times yes number
you can call it as you are not alone yes there's a bridge in the town I grew up in the sunshine
skyway bridge mechanics saint petersburg sarasota and their phones yeah wow periodically
over the bridge because it is one of the top destinations for suicide prevention while its system
e people just take a minute the prison she realize now we're all in this together you never know
what's going through that to get somebody hog day after course ask permission complying with
the I felt was the one for her is for you.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 14 • 9:14 AM

B_JUN_WASH_32

Millennials are more likely than any other age group to die from drugs alcohol or suicide BC
news correspondent jim brian is following this story jim what's behind all of this us well one of
things apparently could be behind it you know this group gently Apted first you have to define
its staid gently people about 18 33 34 years old with what's been happening with those people
since they were teenagers we had the recession back in 2008 2009 since then we've had the
opioid crisis which is unfold it's all led to some really tragic results according to the organization
said look these that these figure years from the centers for disease control and Prevention they
find that among that group the 18 to 34 year-olds drug related deaths have soared 108%
between 2007 and 2017 that decade alcohol dow up 69% in suicides rising as well as other
factors all together to create some potential problems for the entire health infrastructure down
the road how is that compared to other age groups other great group of the state either steady
or they've even declined somewhat for some reason this group the 18 to 34 year-olds have
surpassed all others now in terms of these these deaths by alcohol by drugs by suicide in do
they give any reason at all jim is just something that is an anomaly with this age group these
young people under more pressure.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 14 • 12:48 PM

B_JUN_OREG_47

welcome back to am northwest. katu has teamed up with live 95 and your northwest honda
dealers to create kind is better. last week we hosted a youth mental health town hall. here to
share the important messages of that show we welcome back kind is better and faster show
markets in. good to have you back here. >> thank you helen. >> had an impact on you didn't?
>> as a parent and as a human guy shifted from this experience and a lot of it comes from the
northwest honda dealer’s association and we've been working on kind is better. we have
48

launched in november and have been doing the town halls and monthly ribbon meeting with a
youth advisory board which is amazing because they drive content and give ideas and feedback.
overrsof 4 or 5 months, those youths came up with remain pillars that they say are affecting
teens and emotional mental health these days here. those are things like resilience, coping,
stress management, the effects of social media on self-esteem and really it was about
connection. >> looks talk first about how listening to young people is really critical to. >> that
was one of the main things of making connections that the youth brought up and this we talked
about at the town hall. >> what was the point that some folks felt that if the parents listen to
them without judgment then it was extremely helpful? >> without judgment and active
listening and a lot of the times parents are busy doing something else or you have your cell
phone on, act of listening is verbal and visual cues. it's how you use your tone of voice and
something I heard from a lot of the youth in the town hall and the advisory board, we did focus
groups at three different high schools in vancouver and hillsboro. the one thing that they said
about listening is that they felt a lot of the parents were listening to judge them or about
themselves. and actually, it's not about you as a parent or your parenting style if you're
struggling or having a problem. it is about the youth. >> jackson talked about the importance of
dinner with his dad. >> I live in two houses. parents are divorced. my dad is still very strict, he
has a lot of rules, but we have a lot of daily connection. we see each other all the time. we have
dinner together almost every night. we have game night, dinners together and we go and do
stuff as a family it really helps bring everyone together. I know that when my dad is struggling,
he knows when I am struggling, and we can help each other and maybe we can help my sister
you know? it's like working as a family instead of individuals. >> I thought what he said was
really important. >> it happens over time, listening. >> talking isn't always easy. let's listen to
gracie. >> a lot of teens even myself we have a hard time expressing how I feel about her
parents. we have a book that we have, and we passed back and forth and it allows me to speak
with in my mind or how I feel. without the fear of her judging me or getting upset. she'll say I’m
feeling down I shall say the right it in a journal. all rights on how I feel and how it happens and
then I’ll pass it tour and she will right in and give it back me and will keep going back and forth.
>> what is your takeaway from both of those? >> don't give up. keep trying different things and
keep trying things for a that's what I kept hearing for a while. youth could it takes a little while
to get used to that. the idea of having a book to pass back and forth I know at least four families
who are doing this now to. >> I think this is a great idea. >> the town hall has great ideas on
how to do that. the importance of having dinner together was huge for jackson. >> again, some
kind of regular routine, things that are set up ahead of time that the youth can count on. >>
yes. and, one young person talked about the importance of being direct. let's take a listen. >> a
lot of people think that talking about mental health causes suicide is not true and what can I do
about that? >> the answer is it's not bad. the answer is really good to be asking direct questions
to people you're worried about. are you having thoughts about ending your life or suicide?
what the research says is that people that have those thoughts feel relieved because here's the
deal. if I’m having thoughts of suicide and I’m coming to you with hopes of getngif you can't
say the word suicide if you can't ask me directly or you having thoughts about ending your life,
are you having thoughts about dying mac takes a lot of guts to share with you that I am ending
my life and if you can't talk about it is going to be really hard to come out and lead the
conversation with you. >> what is the ultimate goal here with kind is better? >> to drive real
49

conversations and create change in our community here that's why I would encourage people if
you have seen it already or if they watch the town hall on youth mental health with families
and just hear from the youth and hear from parents and panels of experts even educators that
were in the room to talk about this. we are learning as a community way to talk to each other.
>> we are trying to stop bullying, we are trying to lower the suicide rate on your own people,
we are trying to make a difference here by listening and being kind. >> exactly. it's a systemic
approach to what we do in the community and it's positive. >> Michelle, thank you so much.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 14 • 6:00 PM

B_JUN_OREG_48

The LGBTQ community is now looking into the death of a transgender woman found hanging in
a tree a Portland park he excels mike turner tells us they want answers a black transgender
woman was found hanging in a tree a rocky bute may 27th the family thinks tt goalie was
murdered the medical examiner has ruled a suicide pitching pages with basic right George the
world needs to know what's happening and black lives matter and the violence against black
trans women in particular is a crisis in our community Cameron with nut accused senders shows
there is concern that there may have been a hate crime the issue every time there is a reported
hate crime it is actually going to be tracked in the accident was behind it family says tt was in
good spirits knows it wasn't suicide police are now asking the public to contact them up they
have any information or video evidence of the incident.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Jun 14 • 7:05 PM

B_JUN_WASH_33

prosecutors say a man in Tacoma accused of murdering his ex-wife also tried to kill himself.
charging documents say the bullet Jonathan foreman shot at himself ricocheted off his head. he
had a bandage on his head and pierce county court today there you see it right there he is
expected to make a full recovery. by the way his ex-wife Jennifer died at a hospital after
prosecutors say her husband shot her inside the couple's home last weekend. the couple's
three kids who also lived there were not hurt. Forman is charged with first degree murder and
just take a look here the damage left after a car smashed into landscaping a deck and
eventually a tree. it's happened today near thirty ninth avenue southwest and southwest 106
street in west Seattle’s arroyo heights neighborhood. officials on scene say that the driver
suffered some kind medical emergency before that crash. all I heard was a loud crash and a
bunch of banging and I hope that it came down came outside she my yard gold tore up and
seen the neighbor's yard tore up and then I see a guy laying out the ground there the Seattle
fire department says a 37 year old driver who crashed is in stable condition after being taken to
Harborview medical center a woman in another car was evaluated. she was not hurt.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Jun 14 • 7:15 PM

B_JUN_OREG_49

50

jennifer: all right. sure. sure. heading into Portland pride weekend, u.s. senators ron wyden and
jeff merkley are meeting with members and allies of the LGBTQ community. one of the many
topics discussed was concern about suicide with LGTBQ children. there is new legislation in
Oregon to address this, but ororte believe more still needs to be done at the national level.
leaders and senators say policies passed by the trump administration negatively impact and
target the community. >> I don't fear for oregonians basic protections. what I fear for is the
climate of hate that seems to be unleashed by the harmful policies of the trump administration.
>> I call the trump administration the administration of discrimination because htey try to force
so many americans and certainly LGBTQ Americans back into the shadows.
KATU-POR (ABC)
B_JUN_OREG_50
Jun 14 • 9:14 PM
earlier this week the trevor project released a new study. it found 39 percent of youth from all
50 states seriously considered suicide in the past year. >> 76 percent felt the recent political
climate impacted their mental health or sense of self. >> more than three quarters of the
sample said that they felt that politics were affecting their mental health. it's not being lgbt q
that is resulting in the high rates of suicide attending high rates of discrimination of physical
harm, of being told that you do to change your sexual orientation or gender identity. that is
withdrawing the rates. >> trevor project is the logix use prevention organization for lgbt
cubans. they have experts standing by to have anyone who needs to reach out. you can call or
text them at the number on your screen.
B_JUN_OREG_51

FM News 101 KXL
Jun 15 • 1:00 AM

a 29 year-old nypd officer died today in an apparent suicide his death marks the third suspected
suicide within the New York police department in less than two weeks the officers not
identified but the nypd says he shot himself behind a precinct on Staten island in a statement
tonight the nypd commissioner james o'neil says this is a mental health crisis he says the party
will take immediate action and that there's no shame and seeking help.
KMVU (FOX)
Jun 15 • 2:12 AM

B_JUN_OREG_52

next mansion -- mansion of secrets, rebecca zahau of tycoon jonah shock my, adam shacknaI
inc., and two days before her death, the 6-year-old son max a fatal fall from staircase at the
home while under reb watch. Rebecca’s death was ruled a suicide but her family believes she
was murdered. now dr. Phil is diving deep into the 2011 case and only podcast, "mansion of
secrets: the mysterious death of rebecca zahau" and now it is dr. phil, take a look. >> the sister
did not indicate she was depressed, suicidal or wanted to hurt herself. I just lost it. >> what
troubled her so much is, what could have changed in rebecca's final hours so much so that she
went from forward thinking, planning future events to ending her life that night? >> jesse: you
can hear more about the chilling case on dr. phil's new podcast "mansion of secrets: the
mysterious death of rebecca zahau" and now it's by dr. phil on apple podcast and stitcher.
51

B_JUN_WASH_34

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 15 • 10:43 AM

another New York city police officer has died of a suspected suicide a trend that's rising
nationwide is NBC'S tod and the NYPD says 29 year-old officers died after shooting himself in
the head on a street areas precinct it's the department's third suspected suicide 9 days last
week two long-time officers died within 24 hours of each other both from a self-inflicted
gunshot wound to the head suicide rates have been on the rise in the U.S. in recent years and
2017 more than 47000 Americans took their own lives and among police at least 159 officers
died by suicide in 28 team according to the police suicide Prevention group.
KAYU (FOX)
Jun 15 • 11:15 AM

B_JUN_WASH_35

I don't know if it's just me, but it seemed this year, on Facebook and other social media, that we
celebrated and honored more of the fallen on Memorial Day than we have in the past few
years. and I hope that was statistically true. but it seemed to me like there was more of the
positive notes out there, if you will, and comments on those who have really given all for our
freedom. - good, good. well, we can never do enough or say "thank you" enough. I was also
down at Fairfield. - yes. - Fairfield, small town, where a local guy, community leader, has built
this wall in Fairfield, a memorial wall, to everyone in that community who has served. - nice. and again, he had this idea, and he's doing it. and it was beautiful. it was a beautiful ceremony
to recognize and celebrate. and there's so many that we have lost. we were honoring world war
ii, Korea, Vietnam. and then the more local wars, also. just last week, we held in Washington... I
co-chair the military family caucus with Sanford bishop. he's a democrat out of Georgia. and
we've done this for several years. and it's putting a microphone in front of military families, just
to bring to the forefront the challenges that they face. because when someone joins the
military, it's not just a job. - it's the whole family. - it's the whole family. - in fact, it's probably
hardest on those left behind. - I agree. - it really is. - I agree. and we're making progress, but
there's still more that needs to be done. last week, we held a forum in Washington dc, the
military family caucus did. but it was on veteran suicide. we are losing, today, 20 veterans.
everyday. that's our average. 20 veterans. - that's terrible. - everyday are committing suicide.
and it's just mind-boggling. - yes. - and that's down from what was 22. - that's down far enough
to zero. - no. so, really as a community, to come along side those, to make sure that we are
expressing our appreciation. - we can't do enough. - yes. - that really is the answer.
News Radio KEX
Jun 15 • 11:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_53

Last year the world learned of the death of a famed electronic musician of the year he died by
suicide after struggling with drugs and anxiety abc dan haren spoke operators pop music
megastar for remembering following with friends and the release of his album after his death a
t more than a year after she died by suicide the music he left behind in relief in a new costume
52

this album entitled to him which is allowing bt fans re-visit his life and legacy we sat down with
him and a lot operators who opened up about his final days sharing behind-the-scenes videos
and candid photos collaborating with some of the biggest names in the business everyone from
Chris martin of Coldplay is losing to the donna night he won an American music award of these
4 favorite electronic dance music artist and was nominated for two Grammy’s and countless
other awards everyone do anything even the president some of those bids saying and the chin
but away from the spotlight the camera was wrestling with substance abuse that led to health
issues he suffered from pedigree desk here and documentary of vt true story released less than
a year before he change on oil means pain listened to the whole thing can be said for shows
how publicly he struggled to keep up with the intense demand of his life style privately his
friends and his anxiety grew along with his frame they have kind of invincible mind state like
nothing can touch me I’m capable of everything I can party tonight and still do this skid
tomorrow and then travel halfway across the world it's been a popular route and solemn all but
hey known professionally as vargas and one goal a co-wrote several songs with him over the
years we math and reading ernie days because you love writing songs like super old school on
piano or guitar members on the tracks he was like super into melodies and loved the structure
amenities and muscle group picky about everything he always had and really clear vision for
where he wanted to go with his music and he had this idea about we should make some
country music what this does not think men weep world's this I’m calling about that jamie
brother nurses they can he took that further you wake up this landscape for electronic music
around this acoustic guitar bhopal basically took robust keep so musically prolific they created
the song along with mike I’m figure be leaving it just a couple hours but would go onto
amassed nearly two million hits on youtube alone I had no idea that the song which connects
with such a wide audience the way that it did and travel the world in luxury performing in front
of thousands of adoring fans.
AM 860
Jun 15 • 5:00 PM

B_JUN_OREG_54

New York city police say 29 and year-old officer has died in the department's third suspected
suicide in less than two weeks for say the officer shot himself in the head Friday afternoon on a
Staten island street near precinct last week two long-time officers died in a suspected suicide
than 24 hours of each other police say both died from self-inflicted gunshot wounds the New
York city officers suicides come amid rising nationwide trend more than 47000 u.s. suicides
reported 2017 or 14 per 100000 the highest rate in at least half a century.
News Radio KEX
Jun 15 • 6:11 PM

B_JUN_OREG_55

they me tell you the story of a teenager that was just you but minds see if you're greedy with
their decision to meet tolerant and healthy people out that are in pain com ok food and goods
through with them these see how crazy Miley Cyrus was so funny I remember the interview I
did with your dad it's for a good day I do remember this filly rags billy ray was on I said billy
yeah are you afraid your daughter is going to be with the devil soon and he was known because
53

I’m going to be there with her and I know because i've seen all these kids go to disney do they
all turn helps grew up in leftist and drug addicts and everything else knock my sweet pie we
have to find better here I do remember that general conversation happening is this is the like
he was he earned his concern dad she was a good Christian they were good Christian family
everything was going well and then she went over to Disney and he we had a great
conversation and he was like no I’m well aware of it that's why I will be there all the time
we're not breaking up our family we're going to be their most these kids go in and make or yet
been rougher run here for Miley it's amazing she actually did theoretically still hopefully forever
relevant minutes I look when I saw her face was like what she's doing I think the same thing and
the tongue again it's my cyrus right to serve as she looks this cake in a photo and it is abortion
health care on its radio all everyone it's about the level of analysis most people put into this
particular topic they see it they like a photo on instagram like there's not a lot of thought going
on here I just you know what to put on my cake that I’m good lick later today and I mean
probably buttercream and my guess is the riley that you know I mean you know what should
the void should say I mean what she thinks of suggestions they will get one I like yours what
you put on your response that both picture her looking the cakes so the licenses this cake now
has an aerial disease rises on work done and that's sad that's not right that's right bro I’m a
month I’m amazed by and by this and that abortion is a lot of things used to be something that
we all everyone in society recognized either as eva hope or a necessary evil right the pro-choice
side it was a necessary evil some places we don't we love we want to be safe legal and rare why
we rare with the why rare what why would you want it reporter it seems like if it's not negative
why would you want a rare and of course the answer to that is they actually and there are a lot
of people and slogans like safe legal and rare who consider themselves pro-choice who wanted
a say screw rare rare but the people who were designed no legal thing whether it's safer not is
really concerning right not so it's been an interesting development in the kind of world the
country now and saying either shall your abortion it was weird to have my best and abortion it
was in Jamaica as you know what at a resort the way if you don't know he's not making that up
there the mility give a speech about her where her best abortion was and she was giving out
over the crowd yet she said was right you have right here in Seattle it was the best course it
was my first was my best yeah oh my gosh what a psycho see that and the other idea that
somehow it's health care abortion is a lot of things it was not a health care health care can be
hey I want I want you to die they can make you can make so didn't life I into healthcare now
especially when the person is not even bear to to agree with whether the person has no
opinion it's one thing to say euthanasia okay well I mean is what dr of working did health care
of me I don't think so but it really is he's a doctor or and it's a medical sort of procedure wounds
maybe make that argument is the person is making the own choice I am not for euthanasia it's
a bad bad standard said however at the same time I am conflicted I just don't want the
government and the medical community having to sign off on everything because then it just
becomes part of the system I don't like that I think you have a right to kill yourself now I come
from a family with two suicide is destructive it is awful it destroys the family it hit it harms isn't
it the most selfish and destructive thing you can do I know because it's happened twice and I
didn't it affects everyone around you with that being said do you have the right to your own life
I think you do I think really hard to stop people and it's one of those things you can make a law
against it if you want like a big trump baby in in Europe and in England you what happened
54

yesterday that could that's popped up I think somebody should do it for him somebody took a
knife and cut a hole in one I thought the a blind eye while long knives in in evidence mean but
anyway but what's happening now is we are devaluing things so much because it is just the
starting point stare safe rare legal right we wanted to be rare well it's in Italy Netherlands they
passed the law few years ago where argue could have euthanasia and it was most recently for
rare illegal it was just for people who had absolutely no prospect of getting better so you're at
the end of your life you got cancer and you're in a massive pain just please just help me god
please help me die I can understand that I really can I hope you don't get there but I have been
close to having close to that kind of pain before we're like I can't live like this I can't live like this
anymore so I understand and however what's happened now is used to have to have a
psychiatrist also signed off so you have to have two doctors and one psychiatrist I think it's the
doctors both had to say yep terminal and blah blah and the psychiatrist had to say yeah they're
in their right mind I think I think that's I think that's probably pretty good standard well they're
getting rid of the psychiatrist now because the psychiatrist is you know is pointing out I know
this person is just really the breast so big they're getting rid of us getting rid of these
psychiatrists so he there are doesn't have to sign on to a more and they're starting to get rid of
people for instance they just they just got rid of I think it was 20 some year-old guy who was
mentally handicapped and you know he said he didn't have a life and he was never going to
have a good life and so he wanted to kill himself and so they killed him now here's the here's
the latest 8 teenager who was raped by two men when she was 14 said that she and she also
has anorexia and she has all kinds of problems I mean it's clear heard this girl has gone through
a really horrific things thank she's 17 years old she said the pain she was dealing with after the
childhood rape was insufferable and she could leave this way and so she decided that she
wanted to be euthanized and they did it 17 year-old girl who had been raped and had tragic
things happening to her she had and rex yeah which is a sign of a mental issue she said it was
too much she couldn't deal with it please kill me and they did it what the hell is wrong with us
adding as a human being as a human being something's wrong with us when we don't see the
potential for that life and we don't say none no first alderman people have gotten through a lot
more than you have and the parents were on board with this one the yeah I mean can you
imagine I look it's a tough situation in certain circumstances I understand that but the problem
here is like what like e it would be unthinkable to an American parent right now to go to them
said haim beard your kids and a lot of pain there are really suffering want them dead right and
of course everyone would say now the issue any other country's after a certain amount of time
there's no war state motto right but it they just like wow wow I guess yeah I mean if she's
saying she wants to be bad if it's legal to go with that same thing happens with abortion right to
me people you know a lot of people who would normally not consider such a thing don't go
down the road really thinking about because the government has made the decision for them
it's a little bit silly thing and the same thing happen the same thing happened with slavery her
husband of people who were I would tell you some of the founders I was David garden saying
yesterday we're doing a thing on slavery coming up for future show he's saying I think about a
quarter of big people that founding era believed in these horrible things you believe about
slavery that did not really he was good for them they look terribly.
KBNZ

B_JUN_WASH_56

55

Jun 15 • 8:40 PM
ninan: jeff pegues in and here in new york, the is a police force n.y.p.d. shaken by suicide.
yesterday the death of an officer suicide in just 10 days is the third suspected and as kenneth
craig reports, not just here, it's a growing problbut nationwide. >> reporter: the most recent the
suicide, right outsideecinct on new york's staten preran island, was a six-year vetof the force,
29-year-old caddy. officer michael the tragedy, the police commissioner said in a statement is
part of "a mental health enforcement as a whole crisis," and that law "absolutely must take
action." members of the department earlier this month, two others, one a respected died by
suicide perienced detective. chief, the other an ex >> cops have to know that there's-- there are
avenues of help, and it's not-- it's not a weakness to ask for help. >> reporter: the three deaths
it's a strength. are part of a disturbing trend last year, nationwide. died by suicide at least 167
officers that's more than the number who died in the line of duty, according to Massachusetts
non-profit blue help. after a string of police in Chicago earlier this suicides year, cbs news rode
alon the police chaplain into with Chicago’s most violentorhoods, trying to reach neighbor out
to vulnerable officers before it's too late. ho >> officers don't want to goess they've encounme
and burden their spouse with the uglin these officers see more evil intered the last eight or 10
hours. the course of a 10-hour tour than lifetime. most anybody sees in a >> reporter: so far,
just year, 93 officers nationwide this have died by suicide. that's already on track reenlist year.
to exceed.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 16 • 11:05 PM

B_JUN_WASH_36

a breakthrough for the debilitating symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder the toll from
PTSD is growing about 20 veterans a day commit suicide and what the V.A. is now calling an
epidemic only 40% find relief from PTSD with current treatments the new procedure called
stellar two gangly and block or SGP is so fast-acting that many believe it could be a game
changer used for decades to treat chronic pain it's only recently been tried for PTSD now the
U.S. army is spending two million $ to find out more nobody is calling it a cure war but the
promise of a new therapy can't come soon enough for many veterans we spoke with frustrated
and despairing that nothing they've tried his work my PTSD was like a monster on your bank
that controls your entire life this is what Sergeant first class Jonathan zeroing faced during his
455 days since part of the American offensive include our province in eastern Afghanistan the
densely forested mountains provided cover for the Taliban fighters launched an attack after 15
months varying couldn't she take the feeling he was going to be ambushed at any moment so
your instinct serve you well in Afghanistan for one $ when you can hold I came home and did
not survive very low because my brain is still more but I was living it can be a father and
husband and changes in the circle and whole room squares with I do not feel like the same
person anymore he suffered for 12 years his marriage fell apart that Woodson's period time
arouse me I wish I would have died in Afghanistan could be remembered as a hero Somebody
finally he reached out to roll medical Center were you aware that he was suffering from PTSD I
thought it was a joke shut teaching youth he was a joke at first everyone knows it's hard being
in combat but that's our job and so being around only military veterans that are all combat guys
56

it was difficult to ever ask for help after 18 years of continuous wars the numbers of soldiers
and veterans suffering from PT sd has reached an all-time high a first-line treatment at the V.A.
are anti-depressants and talks European sharing told us he was asked to write down his worst
combat memories they want me to read it twice has 4 went to bed and I did it one or two days
and kind of a piece of paper through family this this the leg I watched people and die they that's
always going to bother me did you see any improvement 0 Marine sergeant henry coach who
also was at the breaking point I thought if I keep going the same way House torn I don't there's
only two ways I was going to have dead or in jail he spent months patrolling IraqI towns like this
the war on every corner of 4 deployments Ku told us he was plagued by nightmares he selfmedicated with alcohol and marijuana even though I tried to tell myself Hey I can calm down
I’m no longer over there it was really hard for me to show it off would just think that at the
time they got to the point I thought nothing's going to help I’m losing my relationship with my
kids I lost my relationship my ex-wife with I lost a lot of friends special it is known the just
wanted to do with me anymore it's going he told us he had tried 12 medications all ve had to
offer but nothing worked are you hearing Yeah I blasted music I love when his doctors
suggested an experimental treatment called stellar dangling and block or S G be he had nothing
to lose Yeah of days we went along to watch him every coach those second treatment at the
long Beach V.A. the injection took less than 5 minutes within two minutes coach who told us he
felt a huge difference I can't control myself and like a sense of euphoria is like like a big weight
has been lifted off my shoulders my tests that can actually relax he came back for a second STB
need to bolster the effects of the first two months earlier immediately change your mood or
behavior immediately on my brother took me home he saw I was costly smiling anxiety is like
God I don't know what they did but didn't see it's amazing this is how the procedure works a
local anesthetic isn't jekt deep into the neck to believe the close through of nerves called the
Stella gangly shambling injected actual medication right these nerves help control the brains
fight or flight reactions signals that go haywire with PTSD and he's go being to resume doctors
used floors and contrast and die you can see it spread out next to respond to guide the needle
to the Stella gangly when the anesthetic is injected it seems to know where to turn off the PTSD
symptoms it clears the body in a day but the effects last up to 6 months for some even longer
and there are no known side effects were you surprised at the outcome extreme what Yeah the
sting was a pro Oh Yeah because there's very few things and Medicine network that quickly Dr
Michael Al Khater is trying to pinpoint changes in parts of the brain Associated with PTSD
doctors don't fully understand how as gb works but the theory is based on research that shows
PTSD is not just a psychological exposure to bomb blast and prolonged stress of dangerous
redeployment can cause physical changes to the brain making a hyperactive.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 16 • 11:10 PM

B_JUN_WASH_37

I do not feel like the same person anymore he suffered for 12 years his marriage fell apart that
Woodson's period time arouse me I wish I would have died in Afghanistan could be
remembered as a hero Somebody finally he reached out to roll medical Center were you aware
that he was suffering from PTSD I thought it was a joke shut teaching youth he was a joke at
first everyone knows it's hard being in combat but that's our job and so being around only
57

military veterans that are all combat guys it was difficult to ever ask for help after 18 years of
continuous wars the numbers of soldiers and veterans suffering from PT sd has reached an alltime high a first-line treatment at the V.A. are anti-depressants and talks European sharing told
us he was asked to write down his worst combat memories they want me to read it twice has 4
went to bed and I did it one or two days and kind of a piece of paper through family this this the
leg I watched people and die they that's always going to bother me did you see any
improvement 0 Marine sergeant henry coach who also was at the breaking point I thought if I
keep going the same way House torn I don't there's only two ways I was going to have dead or
in jail he spent months patrolling IraqI towns like this the war on every corner of 4 deployments
Ku told us he was plagued by nightmares he self-medicated with alcohol and marijuana even
though I tried to tell myself Hey I can calm down I’m no longer over there it was really hard for
me to show it off would just think that at the time they got to the point I thought nothing's
going to help I’m losing my relationship with my kids I lost my relationship my ex-wife with I
lost a lot of friends special it is known the just wanted to do with me anymore it's going he told
us he had tried 12 medications all ve had to offer but nothing worked are you hearing Yeah I
blasted music I love when his doctors suggested an experimental treatment called stellar
dangling and block or S G be he had nothing to lose Yeah of days we went along to watch him
every coach those second treatment at the long Beach V.A. the injection took less than 5
minutes within two minutes coach who told us he felt a huge difference I can't control myself
and like a sense of euphoria is like a big weight has been lifted off my shoulders my tests that
can actually relax he came back for a second STB need to bolster the effects of the first two
months earlier immediately change your mood or behavior immediately on my brother took me
home he saw I was costly smiling anxiety is like God I don't know what they did but didn't see
it's amazing this is how the procedure works a local anesthetic isn't jekt deep into the neck to
believe the close through of nerves called the Stella gangly shambling injected actual
medication right these nerves help control the brains fight or flight reactions signals that go
haywire with PTSD and he's go being to resume doctors used floors and contrast and die you
can see it spread out next to respond to guide the needle to the Stella gangly when the
anesthetic is injected it seems to know where to turn off the PTSD symptoms it clears the body
in a day but the effects last up to 6 months for some even longer and there are no known side
effects were you surprised at the outcome extreme what Yeah the sting was a pro Oh Yeah
because there's very few things and Medicine network that quickly Dr Michael Al Khater is
trying to pinpoint changes in parts of the brain Associated with PTSD doctors don't fully
understand how as gb works but the theory is based on research that shows PTSD is not just a
psychological exposure to bomb blast and prolonged stress of dangerous redeployment can
cause physical changes to the brain making a hyperactive Dr Al Khater told us 80% earlier STB
patients had relief from depression and suicidal thoughts it almost sounds like you're really
rooting these Let's bring that isn't exactly a very good way to think about in the waiting room
Henry coach whose mother is overwhelmed after watching her son's self-destruct she told us S
G B D her son back it's not a stand-alone tour but coto told us he's a regular therapy now is
starting to work the first couple weeks I don't believe people be like you're % and really change
even after going 19 months if feel like I got a second chance at life despite its promise S gb is
available at only 12 of the 172 V.A. hospitals it's still considered experimental the Army study is
the first clinical trial for as gb with a placebo over 100 active duty soldiers with PTSD
58

participated and it's now under peer review iffy anecdotal successive STB is duplicated it could
revolutionize the way PTSD is treated how things going on with things I did for now most
veterans rely on word of mouth to find private clinics like this one run by doctors on holding a
former Navy seal like the guy stuff skin like a walrus among military doctors he was the first to
see and gb's potential it especially after his years as a combat medic for special operations
soldiers we asked them to go to a dirty job we didn't tell him what's going to happen to them
we didn't tell them we're going to break them dakota Myers a former Marine corporal sought
Dr Mulvaney help in 2011 he was the first living Marine to be awarded the medal of honor since
the vietnam war room to use the system Dr. Mulvaney stumble onto as gb's 10 years ago and
Sloan's turn dreams he had read a newspaper article about a treatment for of all things hot
flashes that targeted the same nerve signals that PTSD disrupts so he tried it since then he's
done about a 1000 injections he found 70% of the soldiers he treated had reduced anxiety and
paranoia can vary by packing and she really H Dr Mulvaney is hoping the results of the army's
clinical trial will make S G be more widely available these people to earn a blank check to the
nation that included to life and it as citizens we and we need to help them when they come
home when they broke and Jonathan daring also found his way to Dr Mulvaney for an
esteemed body teller a brand new men with my grandma and what I mean I was I had to
control my feelings as out my own self my old self of John's hearing pre combat again after the
shock daring found something else had changed to he had a different attitude toward Earth
nobody does not eliminate you having PTSD does not make it so do you no longer with through
a traumatic experiences but It does is it makes it so you're not drowning gives you a bitter row
gives room for to go to get therapy gives you really get help I think there's enough evidence out
there that this is a valid therapy and it's it's something that works former Brigadier general
Donald B ball dog had an STB injection when he was commander of special operations in Africa
it made such a difference that in 2016 he became the first and so far the only active duty senior
officer to admit that he too suffered from PTSD it took him 8 years to overcome the stigma to
remember the soldiers I certainly do Marine special operations a former Green Beret an old
Ducks showed us a memorial in his office to the 72 the soldiers he lost over 10 deployments he
cheated death himself numerous times surviving fire fights a 2000 £ bomb and this helicopter
crash which knocked him unconscious was like to be around and during that time you just don't
know what's coming you don't know what's going to set him off it was his wife Sharon who
finally made bold book confront his PTSD get help she said she and the children would leave
him on a dime I can do this by myself anymore and I didn't marry you to be a single parent dog
it is trite traditional therapy with little relief it was the as she beat.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 17 • 3:11 AM

B_JUN_OREG_57

Soledad: a new survey shows farmers are feeling less optimistic about the ag industry. the
monthly survey from Purdue university found farmer sentiment has hit its lowest level in two
years. researchers say farmers remain worried about their financial future as the trade war with
china goes on. and the now the risk of low yields because of recent flooding. and farmers aren't
just facing a financial crisis. but a mental health one, as well. groups like farm aid and the
wisconsin farm center report significant increases in the number of farmers asking for
59

psychological help. correspondent jess gomez shows us how one small farm town in wisconsin
is responding. >> I have always loved the farm. we milked cows, raised the family, had lots of
neighborhood parties, people loved to come to our place. it is a good life. jessica: winter slowly
making way for spring on the statz family farm in loganville, wisconsin. for brenda statz, it's the
first spring in 35 years, without her husband. brenda statz: you could tell he was uneasy with
what the way things were going. jessica: leon had a history of depression. it resurfaced last
winter, when the family sold its dairy cows.
>> to me it's sad, because this is what I lived. jessica: after years of low milk prices and rising
costs of equipment and repairs the numbers just didn't make sense anymore. three generations
of dairy farming came to an end. the couple, with help from their two sons, started
transitioning to beef and grain farming. but leon struggled with the change. brenda statz: he
didn't want to go places, where normally he was very outgoing. didn't like to have friends over
anymore. didn't like to eat as much. jessica: despite months of treatment, leon's third suicide
attempt was successful. brenda: it's like when you see your child struggling and they can't help
themselves. that's what he was. he fought it hard though. give me a minute. jessica: leon's
suicide, rocking the small city of loganville. >> the barns are deteriorated now and each one had
cows in them. jessica leon's friend, dale : meyer, had been taking him to treatment in madison.
dale meyer: thought he was doing better, um, what could I have done, what could have I said?
jessica: five months later, meyer is doing a lot. organizing monthly meetings for farm families in
the basement of a local church. >> so we staff crisis 24 hours a day 365 days a year. jessica: the
idea -- to connect farmers to nearby mental healthcare resources, financial help, and suicide
prevention training. >> if we can keep people alive and give them options, that's what they are
missing is options -- they struggle bad. I don't want to start crying again. >> conversations that
were once only behind closed doors. don meyer: I think farmers are very private people and as I
grew up in earlier generations they didn't talk about anything like this. >> in the past we have
not talked. we are talking better now. jessica: in iowa, talking to farmers is what dr. mike
rosmann does every day. he's one of the only a handful of psychologists in the country
specializing in agriculture. dr. mike rosmann: we need to understand what motivates farmers
and why do farmers have such a strong inclination to take out their failures on themselves,
even though they can't control most of the factors that impact farming and . jessicosnnays the
current economic strain coupled with the lack of adequate mental health care in rural areas is
creating a crisis not seen since the 1980's. the scars of farm life, no longer just physical. dr. mike
rossman: I refuse to let my boy farm, it was too hard on me and I said I don't need -- want you
to do it. do something else. jessica: rosmann says what's happening in places like loganville, a
small town with a big heart, is a step in the right direction. for the statz family, there's comfort
in knowing, leon's death could help save a life. brenda statz: people have contacted me and
they said, they are so thankful because we don't know what to do. jessica as for their dairy
barn, : it hasn't been touched since the day the cows left. just in case the next generation picks
up, where leon left off. brenda statz: this is the family farm, the statz family farm, and that's
what leon always said, it was never about just him, it was the family and we will just keep going.
jessica: in loganville, wi, for matter of fact, I’m jessica gomez. soledad: republican senator jonI
ernst of iowa and senator tammy baldwin, a wisconsin democrat, pushed for mental-health
provisions to be included in the 2018 farm bill passed in december. the bill allocated 50 million
60

dollars over five years for mental health resources, but local communities say much of that
money has yet to make its way to rural farmers.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 17 • 9:06 AM

B_JUN_OREG_58

first in year, sophomore year, junior year, I was just at a point where I didn't care about school.
>> that is vicente. he was not on a good path. but after participating in a brand-new program
this year, he is now a proud tualatin high school graduate. you want to tualatin high school beca
they had this new program that's making a huge difference for graduates. >> yeah, it's a
students that students tell me has totally changed their lives. the students at tualatin high, they
are officially out of school now. but for many, it's been a year of big transformation. that thanks
to what's been called the l.i.f.t. program, which stands for leadership integrity for today and
tomorrow. I spoke with two young men, vicente and often. recently graduated early. you
credits the adults involved with the program for saving his life. when he was having suicidal
thoughts. meantime, austin who plans to graduate this summer, says without the program, he
probably would still be out committing crimes. >> they really impacted all those because they
make you, like, feel like they are family, like, we can talk to them about whatever. >> and that's
really the idea to develop relationships with the most at risk kids. during school, they have a
whole class period dedicated to making them feel more connected to school and each other.
the hope is that it will translate to success in the classroom. that was also paired with fun
bonding activities out of the classroom like crossfit. this program started when school officials
at tualatin high started wondering why a number of students weren't showing up to class. they
found that half of the kids playing hooky were Latino but latino students only made up 27% of
the entire student population. so, they interviewed the latino students skipping out on class.
and found the kids didn't feel connected to school. they didn't feel like they belong. that's when
the school and the Washington county juvenile department began working together and came
up with a plan that was focused on developing authentic connections with the kids. really, just
trying to get to know them and nina, this year, 50 students were involved, 10 of them were
seniors, nine graduated and if you can believe it, all of them did not think they were going to
graduate at the beginning of this program. so it's been amazing. pretty amazing. and the
attendance really, for every kid, in the program has gone up. >> so did a pair them up with
someone specific to kind of get them through to the end of school? >> it's not like paired up
individually. different at those. but there are a number of adults that are dedicated to this
program. one of them from the juvenile department has been come a sort of father figure
which is really cool. plus, you've got all these wilson though crossfitter trainers who have also
become mentors and people to look up to. and they've developed connections with each other,
which is pretty amazing as well. the school, though, working on making this program the best it
can be as you can imagine. it being a pilot program, a lot of, lecka, trials and errors. but they
really want to expand this out to the whole district. but personal trainers and workout people.
the best motivators. >> I know. and you know what? >> especially. it's. >> they are volunteering
their time, too. that's a big thing. >>> well, congrats to them and all the graduates graduating
this year. krysti, thank you so much. great story. guys, over to you.

61

B_JUN_OREG_59

KBNZ
Jun 17 • 9:25 AM

the recent suicide of a police officer in New York problem across the nation. as kenneth craig
reports, it's a growing suicide right outside the >> reporter: the most recent prec staten inct on
new york's veteran island was a six-year of. New York 29-year-old michael caddy. commissioner
said in a statement, I the tragedy, the police ement as a whole ms part of a mental health crisis
and law enforcers us take action. earlier this month two to suicide, one a died by chief, the
other respected an experienced >> cops have to know there are detective. avenues for help
and it's akness to ask for help. not a we it's a strength. a disturbing trend nationwide. >>
reporter: the three deaths are part of st 167 officers died by last year at lea thsuicide.at's more
than the number who died in the line of duty according to Massachusetts' nonprofit blue mass
help. cbs news rode alongside, trying the police chaplain out to vulnerable to reachable officers.
these officers see more evil in the course of a ten-hour tour than most anybody sees in a
lifetime >> reporter: so far just this officers year, 93nationwide have died by suicide. it's already
on track to exceed last year. kenneth craig, cbs news, new york.
88.5 KNKX
Jun 17 • 10:44 AM

B_JUN_WASH_38

I know king at odds steve inskeep gloria Vanderbilt has died she lived 95 years with a name that
represented wealth she was a descendant of a man who built one of america's first great
fortunes shipping and railroad tycoon of the 18 hundreds in time she reshaped what the
Vanderbilt name meant linking it to fashion and the fame jackie likeness this remembrance
gloria Vanderbilt had full lips eyes turned up at the corners and attrition bearing she was in fact
a descent into shipping and railroad tycoon cornelius Vanderbilt one of the richest man in
american history her mother also named gloria pattern in 1921 her father reginald vanderbilt
died shortly thereafter gloria was raised by a beloved a nurse because her mother was away in
europe living high-society life by 1934 little rich girl of the tabloids was at the center of the
sensational custody battle instigated by her grandmother and aunt she talked about it with the
radio host lloyd loss as a child I did not feel they are treated as a pair of senior I felt really does
feed as an object and nobody ever really kind of thought what she really like what is she like
what are her talents what she want me in a glorious aunt gertrude vanderbilt whitney who
founded the whitney museum of art won the battle against glorious mother with me then fired
glorious nurse as gloria vanderbilt matured she developed their own creative drive an earned
run income if you have to really work for it when you're do achieve that even know it really
takes longer it means tomorrow I’m having a famous name help and she didn't make it she
was known for vivid paintings and collages sense she was asked to design everything from china
to lyndon the 19 seventy's she was designing machines and glamorous skinny jeans and every
pair of jeans her signature was appointed on the back right pocket a tiny gold swung invited on
foot pocket she even model jeans yourself in tv ads manu's crash denim jeans and they are a
pleasure aware and look at vanderbilt attracted talented and interesting man she married 4
times her husband's included the conductor leopold to cut scheme with whom she had two
sons and directors sydney the that in later life her companion was the trailblazing photographer
62

musician gordon parks she had shared tragedy her 4th husband the writer white cooper died
they had two sons in 1988 her oldest car cooper committed suicide by jumping from the
apartment floor balcony as he was talking to her there and I said carter come back from then
then I thought it was going to come back but he didn't grow and there was a moment when I
thought I was going to jump over to ask him but then I started you that would be her younger
son cnn journalist anderson cooper they discussed the suicide in a television segment about
loss vanderbilt opened up about her life and memoirs she also wrote art books novels but she
took her children or her greatest achievement she was a woman who seemed eager to share
her life lessons I believe that we have to cherish the pang had great experience as weak
cherished enjoy because without wonder what would be the other and it's what makes us live I
think that's very important vanderbilt told friends and interviewers that she believed in being
positive over the fireplace in the studio she painted a message be kind to everyone you meet
for everyone is fighting a great battle.
KOBI
Jun 17 • 11:22 AM

B_JUN_OREG_60

The actress Gina Rodriguez, the star of "jane the virgin." she has a social media following and
she's opening up about her mental health challenges and candid conversations with Kate snow
it is remarkable >> it is remark. I had a pleasure of hosting an event for the Kennedy forum in
Chicago my husband, Chris, and I spoke about losing his father to suicide. then Gina Rodriguez
came on stage. she has talked in the past about anxiety. at this event, she wanted to contribute
to the conversation around mental health she surprised everyone with her candor >> reporter:
"jane the virgin" made Gina Rodriguez a star, but her quick rise to fame was a lot. shooting the
final season, she had panic attacks. >> there was a point where I couldn't -- I couldn't push
through every single time anymore. I’m one of those human beings, I know either you're it or
you know who they are, where they're like, I’ll handle it later I’ll deal with it later. I’ll figure it
out later I just have to do this now all the while, dealing with this, you know, your silent little
dragon in your head it came to a point, and the last season was the first season that it actually
had -- I had to stop production I just had a really tumultuous season, and I was unafraid for the
first time to be like, I can't. >> reporter: two years ago, Gina posted this video on Instagram and
wrote she suffers from anxiety. at the Kennedy forum, after hearing my husband, Chris, talk
about his father's struggles with depression, Gina opened up. >> I started dealing with
depression around 16 I started dealing with this idea of that same concept that I think your
husband was talking about. everybody is going to be better when I’m gone. life will be easier. all
the woes will be away. all the problems I wouldn't have to fail or succeed, right then all this
surmounting pressure would go away >> Gina, did I just understand what you just said a minute
ago, about -- that you were thinking that maybe people would be better off >> oh, yeah. >>
without you here? >> oh, yeah. I felt that before not too long ago. it's a very real feeling and I
like that you had spoken with your husband about not being afraid to ask somebody if they feel
that way because it's very -- it's just new territory. it is the reason I took this talk. >> reporter: in
her Puerto Rican family, no one spoke about mental health. now, she wants young women to
know it is okay to acknowledge struggles. >> it has to be a part of the conversations I have with
these young girls. I can't tell them to go out and make their dreams come true, and then to
63

ignore everything else >> right >> you know? >> can I give you a hug? >> yeah, bring it in now
would be a good time >> it's really brave I don't know if brave is the right word. >> I feel brave.
I’m on the top of mt. Everest, but it feels good. >> she opened up. >> yeah. but it feels good is
what she said at the end. guys, she wants to be a part of this conversation. she wants people to
know that it is okay to talk about your mental health. that was really brave of her >> yeah. >>
sure was. >> unexpected, right >> she said -- jenna, you were saying during the piece, she is this
bubbly, wonderful, vivacious actress and so talented and so smart. we all think of her one way.
she said to me at one point that evening, she said, I have a really good -- I’m really good at
covering. really good at looking like everything is fine on the outside on Instagram >> I think we
never know the private pain that people are suffering. >> never >> she mentioned the silent
dragon that conversation is so important because people watching, I know from experience,
talking about my own issues with panic attacks, and that pushing through, stopping production,
those are very real things her talking about it, there's millions of people watching this, watching
this now, who are going to feel a little better. >> tell me about this Kennedy forum. >> yeah. so
it is patrick Kennedy, the former congressman, who does the Kennedy forum every year that
night was not just Gina Rodriguez but also elle king, "x's and o's," heather Armstrong a blogger
and author spoke and judy collins, the singer, spoke about her substance abuse and losing her
son. it was an emotional, powerful night. we're putting the whole Gina Rodriguez conversation
with me, a link to that on today.com. most importantly, if anybody out there needs help, I want
to mention the national suicide prevention lifeline. the number is 1-800-273-8255.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 17 • 3:13 PM

B_JUN_OREG_61

Portland police responded to a call that rocky bute Park when they arrived they found a
noticed gully hanging from a tree Ali's death was ruled a suicide but ellis family says there could
be more to the story reporter erica Morse to talk with members of his family and she joins us
now with more thanks so much for coming in thank you Dave before I get to go story I have
seen different pronouns used for Daly in different articles which pronouns and do news so I’m
happy is when I’m speaking about tt I used it she and female pronouns but the family used
male pronouns so in my story and I’m quoting them heal female pronouns that I spoke with
social services organization who worked with goalie they say she identified as a transgender
woman so any definite an idea and what more can you tell us about this T Ali's life its peak AlI
was a 31 year-old black transgender woman who moved to Portland 24 teams for a better life
for a safer life found Kansas city Missouri to be able to express herself and not feel in danger
because of the Kremlin's very accepting community here and LGBTQ community and it she was
known for having being the life of the party and when I went to her visual people talked about
seeing her dancing on 80 second Street all the time and how that now that she's gone from me
and the like and that's what we know about what happened to her we know very little about
what happened what we do know is that the body was found he said memorial day at rocky
Park hanging in a tree and the police have not released any of their incident reports or any
further information to really tell us the details of what happened that night when the founder
why did the medical examiner originally ruled the death a suicide according to Ali's mother I’m
Ken robinson she says that said medical examiner ruled it a suicide because of the nature of the
64

incident she was found hanging witches traditional means of committing suicide police have
since opened investigation because there had been so many rumors swirling around what
actually happened how did your family and you mentioned her mother had her family find out
what happened them to their daughter so her brother R.J. that work on that evening and
received a message on Facebook asking how do you know what's your connection and he
responded that's my brother and the person says okay.
AM 860
Jun 17 • 4:35 PM

B_JUN_OREG_62

there's say that a great concern about bullying and across the country and I actually am
sympathetic to read and not because I was so mercilessly bully I had my share I mean and
basically because of the thick glasses and being klotz seat and by one point they came together
when I was playing softball and I actually made the catch but the ball came down and broke my
glasses and I still caught it playing second base it was not the greatest moment of athletic glory
and in my life it was this was in town 6th grade 7th grade it was 7th grade answer is a
nightmare 7th grade year but every everybody 7th greatest nightmare shrank in any event in
wisconsin there's an amazing story which says that all 3 of daron o'brien's teenage daughters
have been bullied at school he said they've been shoved into lockers one was served to society
recorded and another was told to kill herself and the thing about telling kids to kill themselves
this is one of the aspects of bullying that think it is important to take more seriously as a society
because right now we have a suicide epidemic have talked about on this program many times
it's utterly devastating because right now for young main goals suicide is the leading cause of
death not homicide not car crashes not drug overdose suicide a terrible thing darrow ryan 38
year-old paper mill employee said he pleaded with school principals teachers guidance
counselors to find a way to stop the bullying for his daughters but none of it made much of a
difference now he's hoping a proposal in Wisconsin rapids Wisconsin wars daughters go to
school will help stem the harassment in the district making parents pay up to 313 $ in fines and
fees if their children bully other children I don't have any idea how they came to that figure of
exactly 313 dollars I don't know what that means but it's money craig murray whose
superintendent of Wisconsin rapids public schools said he asked to municipalities to assess the
district's bullying policy but the review took on more urgency in February when note telling a
7th grader to killer self-started surfacing online thrusting classroom pulling into the open as this
is a serious matter because there have been numerous well publicized cases of of kids who do
they take their own lives when their push into by others Wisconsin rapids in the central part of
the state is not alone in looking to parents to solve a vexing problem of bullying which found
20% of students between the ages of 12 and 18 experience of school each year according to
department of education several other municipalities in at least one state legislature
considered finding dory and jailing parents whose children boley where such legislation passed
though the penalty is rarely imposed local officials compared the ordinances to truancy laws
they act as a deterrent rather than punishment still some critics say the bills could backfire
unfairly punished parents for their children's actions dr amanda nickerson who's the director of
the out emerging center for bowling obvious prevention university of buffalo said she was
65

skeptical of being fined was suddenly motive fey parents to become involved in changing and
child behavior she said the key to engaging parents was set up meetings between them and
teachers to discuss how to encourage good behavior before seeking any kind of penalty I would
imagine most schools do it and do it that way in north tonawanda New York near buffalo and
maybe find 250 dollars or jailed up to 15 days if their child bully someone lou brown the city
attorney said that since the law went into effect in 2017 video police department sent warnings
to a handful of parents but then and fined or jailed anyone and pennsylvania frank burns
democratic state representative proposed legislation would find parents of 500 dollars if their
child continued to bully others after warnings and meeting with school officials he said the
reaction to the proposal had been mixed in the bill has stalled and aid committee it seems to
me that part of the way to respond to this kind of initiative is to see it as part of the aid general
effort to encourage more parental responsibility and give more pairs more choice for instance
to give parents more choices where their kid go to school and if you give more choice in
education then it seems to me that it is fair correspondingly to have parents take more
responsibility to go along with that choice if their children misbehave the other difficulty with
this with all of the family structure problems we have in the united states in homes without to
parents and homes where their parents may have a very severe problems of their own is
perhaps a and unreasonable unrealistic to expect of parents to be able to cope with these
problems.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
US Jun 17 • 7:17 PM

B_JUN_OREG_63

in the Pacific northwest there's growing concern over the number of deaths in County jails an
investigation by public radio stations paint a picture of what's happening nearly half of Oregon
and Washington inmates died in custody killed themselves and at least 70% of those who died
in the past decade were awaiting trial Oregon public broadcasting Conrad Wilson has more.
After 40 days and Josephine County jail gin now Murray butterfield hanged herself using a bed
she herself I was one of the body of Robert sell these corrections deputy County jail in southern
Oregon and he's speaking to an Oregon state police detective investigating butterfield death
last September I should not sign it I got a radio call all snaps gone to 4 0 in a possible suicide
they tried to revive her but couldn't butterfield died she was 34 I never was suspected
butterfield to do is funny she was always you know the old strange little bit different but she
never seen that's the type of person who would hurt herself. Suicide is the leading cause of
death for people in northwest jails but many jill officials have taken little action to curb the
problem and protect inmates in fact they say they didn't know the scope of the problem until
an investigation by Oregon public broadcasting K U W in Seattle and the Northwest News
network investigation found since 2008 more than 300 people died from a range of causes after
being taken to County jails in Oregon Washington nearly half the known causes of death were
suicide I have real safety concerns about what kind seen Jennifer Williamson his organs House
majority leader and Democrat after the investigation she introduced legislation to better track
jailed us in the state that bill was signed into law last month I mean it shows me that we have
people who are very sick and the mentally ill in our facilities we don't have to deal with them
66

and because we don't have to deal with and they're dying and that is unacceptable years before
she died butterfield was diagnosed with schizophrenia intake records from Josephine County
showed the jail new butterfield had a quote history of emotional or mental disturbance it's
unclear what steps if any need Joe took when she was in their care but just King County sheriff's
office won't talk about butterfield staff many joke commanders say the top thing they worry
about his suicide yet some law enforcement officials say not all suicides in jails are preventable
third going to happen John Bishop as executive director of the Oregon state chair Association I
think this summer is going to kill themselves are going to do it I just don't I think in theory
maybe you could say it could be preventable with not practically I don't think that we should
accept this rate of suicide mortality in jail it's inevitable erratically is managing to turn need for
disability rights Oregon she says even though corrections deputies get some mental health
training it's not enough we know a lot about suicide rest you know in terms of what those risk
factor is even for an individual doesn't come out and say it and feeling suicidal law suicides like
butter fields where inmates use bedding from their bed frame to hang themselves have been
well documented concern across the country for decades and that's led some jailers to try new
approaches and southwest Washington Park County jail commander rear addition walk through
his overcrowded two years ago he made a controversial decision because of the potential and
the risk we have done away with a penchant bedsheets they could be used by inmates killed
themselves instead the deal gives extra blankets the suicide resistant there ordered Caro but
the bed sheets have to go you have the potential for so our and key speaking from experience
between 2012 and 2016 9 people died by suicide in jail in addition to removing sheets they also
installed molded plastic box better hard to tie things on a higher security areas they got rid of
many traditional doorknobs shower hooks and they train their officers about how to better
manage mental health crises but changing just one thing bed sheets and isn't going to just
eliminate the jailed in-custody death problem this has to do that horse to approach the ship
traveled around the country promoting the changes he's made in his jail changes he says have
made a difference the jails not had a suicide in nearly 3 years.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 17 • 8:12 PM

b_JUN_OREG_64

the iconic golden gate bridge is known for its beauty, but it's also the place where many have
died by suicide. now, a Portland company is helping save lives. we visited the company today.
this is a company known for building massive ships. >> yeah, that is certainly what vigor
industrial is known for. but for the last several months, it has been building something very
different. a device meant to specifically save lives. it's manufacturing a suicide deterrent project
for the golden gate bridge. but this is not a fence or any kind of barrier like that. what vigor has
designed is a net system that is being installed about 20 feet below the bottom deck of the
bridge, about a quarter of the system is already in place. it's made out of stainless steel and will
eventually span the entire length of the bridge that is nearly 9000 feet. but it will be almost on
noticeable. more importantly, it will be impossible to jump over. statistics show once systems
like these are in place, suicide attempts stop. >> the aesthetics of the bridge were paramount in
this design. for the most part, these devices, this next system, will not be visible. from the
roadway. people really won't notice it. but it will do its job and do it very, very well. >> reporter:
67

vigor believes a similar system could be installed on the vista bridge in southwest Portland .
years ago, that historic bridge averaged two suicide attempts a year. five years ago, a fence was
installed and since then, there have been no attempts. however, the fencing was meant as a
temporary solution, and some neighbors would like a more aesthetically pleasing permanent
system. the folks at multnomah believe they can come up with an affordable and permanent
solution for that bridge, too. back to you.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 17 • 9:07 PM

B_JUN_OREG_65

The golden gate bridge, obviously one of the most recognizable bridges in the world. but it also
has a dark reputation as a place where many people come to end their lives. now, a Portland
company is working to change that. >> kgw's keely chalmers visited the company. tell us more.
what are they doing? >> reporter: the company is vigor industrial. it's best known for building
and repairing massive ships. but, it's latest project is one that will go above the water, and
underneath the golden gate bridge. it's being constructed inside of this warehouse in
clackamas, and piece by piece, it's being added to the iconic golden gate bridge. a suicide
deterrent system. this is not a fence or any kind of a barrier like that. in fact, once installed, the
system will be barely noticeable. >> for the most part, these devices, this next system won't be
visible. from the roadway, people really won't notice it. but it will do its job and do it very, very
well. >> reporter: the net system is going in 20 feet below the bottom deck of the bridge. about
a quarter of the systems in place, the rest is still being manufactured. it's made out of stainless
steel and will eventually span the entire length of the bridge. that's nearly 9000 feet. and most
important, it will be impossible to jump over. >> statistics show that once these systems are in
place, the attempts pretty much stopped. >> this is going to prevent a lot of people from dying
by suicide. >> reporter: it's a project david westbrook with the nonprofit suicide prevention
group lines for life says works. >> when you prevent somebody from dying in one spot or by
one method, those individuals never go on to die by suicide. and, that's probably because it is
such an impetuous act. >> reporter: in fact, the group believes a similar system could be
installed on the vista bridge in southwest Portland . up until five years ago, the historic bridge
averaged two suicide a times per year. but when the fence was installed, the attempt stopped.
however, the fence was meant as a temporary solution and some neighbors would like a more
attractive, permanent solution. the folks at vigor believe that can be done. >> the engineers can
come in and design something that will be aesthetically more appealing, I certainly hope so, and
I certainly believe they can. and we will be here to help them do that. >> vigor says it can also
be done at a much lower cost. the golden gate bridge project has an estimated price tag of
more than $200 million. but again, that bridge is more than 9000 feet long. in comparison, the
vista bridge is less than 250 feet. back to you.
AM 860
Jun 17 • 10:42 PM

B_JUN_OREG_66

68

We also talked about this before it goes 22 veterans were committing suicide per day I hope
that the numbers on the decline what is the v.a. doing to contact these folks and help them get
through is a good thing is once again the president has focused on message he's talked about it
I just kicked off the president's executive task force on suicide prevention the just before again
talking with you brad what we are doing is creating a whole help approached this one of the
tragedies that exists up here there are 20 veterans a day to take him alive 14 the most money
are not in the v.a. system we have to find them what the president wants me to do is open the
aperture when it comes to grants and cooperation with the private sector so that we get
charities involved we get no other nongovernmental organizations called we get tribal
government to you all so that we can go and find these people but I will say this if if we just
look at the last tragic act of veterans play we're not going to get very car we have to
concentrate in my view and I’m not a medical professional i've spent my entire life and
defends well we have to do get our arms around mental health issues we're not even at those
sputnik stage when it comes to grabbing what goes on in the brain and I will tell you we're not
going to be able to prevent all of these and the human foot with the human heart the human
condition is such that you just never know what will happen while commuting to apple
cleveland last month veteran took his life for our property he was in his 60s he was living with
his mother he was looking at the surgery that would have resulted in the removal of an ally of
his vocal cords finished off it and he didn't want to live like that us so he left this note on our
property saying please take care my mother those are the kinds of things that no matter what
we do just the natural hello human life will dictate that we can stop all all there would be no
way to know that the event had a short but it's the system now I’m secretary when somebody
leaves the other the armed forces there now veteran they serve us they've been in in places
that I can't even fathom variety of snow in what is a process it can thank you have nice life I got
to be somewhat they carry afterwards they come to us and they get an immediate mental
health screening so since this fiscal year began on October first we've had 900000 new veterans
comment to the system all night 100000 of those have been strained for mental health issue of
those 900000 we're following daily 3000 who have given us an indication that they may want to
harm themselves won't do the trick sweeten pitfalls of this these old the 20 veterans who take
their lives we know that more than half of whom have never had a mental health a diagnosis
really shown indications that they have mental health issues so it is now mandatory that when
you come to us you get a mental health screening us about the first half and the second is if you
go to nobody murphy knocked began not too far from where you're sitting and you say you
have a and issue we have same-day mental health appointments maps for everyone they get
them all of that I do yeah and even those who perceive other than honorable discharges I know
being a military city there everybody is listening to you know what I mean right this president
has told us that we have to reach out to them we've contacted 500,000 service members
receive another inaudible this card and said if you could if you feel that you have an issue
please come to us now the other folks who are the folks who was we also know that in many
cases and other than honorable discharge means you did something wrong the military but
we're looking for those who may have been discharged because no one recognized that they
may have had a brain injury or traumatic experience overseas for was not caught it is a
secretary Robert Willkie so for those listening right down to it but time is short I appreciate you
taking some time with me.
69

B_JUN_OREG_67

KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 18 • 2:27 AM

The Golden Gate bridge is an iconic landmark and it is a place where many died by suicide and
now a Portland company is helpiaves lives. vigor's Clackamas warehouse. they have been
manufacturing a suicide deterrent project for the golden gate bridge. it is not a fence system. it
is a net system installed 20 feet below the bridge. it will span the leng of the golden gate bridge
and be almost unnotable and it will be impossible to jump over. once systems like these are put
in place suicide attempts stop. >> for the most part these devices, this net system will not be
visible from the roadway. people won't notice it but it will do its job. >> vigor's Clackamas
warehouse believes a similar system could be installed on the vista bridge in southwest
Portland . >> if anyone is out there watching this now, you or someone you know struggling
with thoughts of suicide you can call…
KHQ (NBC)
Jun 18 • 9:05 AM

B_JUN_WASH_39

A shocking joint report showing many u-s jails fail to stop inmate suicides. and that new report
is now leading to lawsuits. suicides hit a high of fifty deaths for every 100- for the year of
thousand inmates 2014. the investigation by the a-p and the university of Maryland’s capital
news service says many jails have been sued or investigated in recent years for not managing
inmates properly. more suicides reviewed than half the happened during the inmate's first
week. officials in charge say they see mental health issues in prisons growing worse. snook says:
"this problem has never been as bad as it is today. jails across the country are being sued.
people with are dying on a mental illness almost daily basis. and families are telling us there's
just simply nothing that can be done." the jail suicide rates from 2014 are two-and-a- half times
the rate of suicides in state prisons and about three-and- a-half times that of the general
population.
AM 860
Jun 18 • 10:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_68

A new report finds a record high number of jail inmates in the u.s. committed suicide in 2014
it's long been the leading cause of death in u.s. jails but the number of inmates suicides hit a
record high of 50 deaths for every 100000 inmates in 2014 the last year for government data
that's two and a half times the rate of suicides in state prisons in about 3 and a half times that
of the general population it's a problem colleague blamed on the fact that more mentally ill
people are ending up behind bars while increasingly questions are being raised about the
treatment of inmates and associated press capital news service report finds that scores of jails
have been sued or investigated for allegedly refusing to make a medication they ignoring their
cries for help and specifically warnings that they might harm themselves.
KOMO-AM (Radio)

B_JUN_OREG_69

70

Jun 18 • 2:48 PM
June is PTSD awareness month officials with veterans affairs say efforts to provide treatment in
crisis intervention are helping to lower suicide rates among veterans almost calling Johnson of
the close up and twenty-sixteen the most recent complete data available the suicide rate for
veterans was one and a half times greater than for Americans who have never served in the
military about 20 veterans a day across the country taking their lives and most people who have
PTSD don't get the help they need those who are reaching out and finding success is not easy
going in their tone telling people about your issues they have not told anybody the U.S.
Department of veterans Affairs has posted a new video titled what treatment was like for me
gotta keep doing it because there's going to be out one little story telling the label that lights
out to assess STATS take he could I can use not just veterans but civilian survivors of sexual
Assault serious accidents natural disasters rather dramatic life events need to know that
treatment really can work and lead do a better quality of life else finally able to access it was
like a squalid able to start living again so my first session I still remember toes fades feels like a
new beginning for me a survey by Iraq and Afghanistan veterans of America last fall found that
more than half of their members know oppose September 11 the service member who has
committed suicide veterans troops or their family members can reach out for help texting 8.8
to 5 5 or visit the website veterans crisis line.net.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 18 • 9:05 PM

B_JUN_OREG_70

A new report on deaths in Washington jails shows suicide is the leading cause. Columbia legal
services compiled the report. it shows that between January 2005 and 2016, 22 inmates died
while in custody in Clark county but 16 died by suicide. that is the highest suicide total for any
Washington jail. the story is similar across the corrections system statewide and nationally.
Clark county has not had a suicide since 2016. officials say that's because of steps taken to
improve jail conditions and oversight.
KMTR (NBC)
Jun 19 • 11:21 PM

B_JUN_OREG_71

suicide rates among young people continue to rise, according to a newly released buddy from
harvard university. researchers analyzed government data from 2000-2016. they found that
suicide increased to the highest point among 15-,19 and young adults during this time. males
were over four times more likely to take their own lives than females. >>> and the report claims
people dealing with mental illness are not getting enough support from hospitals around
Portland . instead it is said that people struggling with mental illnesses that show up at
hospitals can end up in jail. the report claims an arrest can be detrimental to getting care for
some of the most vulnerable in the community. >> the hospital may not be the right resource.
the hospital has an obligation to provide a handoff to the right services. >>> our sister station
asked hospitals about the report. they say their goal is patient safety. if there is a threat, people
will be asked to leave.
71

AM 860
Jun 19 • 6:05 AM

B_JUN_OREG_72

Oregon senate has sent the governor a measure amending the state's assisted suicide law by
removing the waiting period for people who have less than 15 days to led those seeking lifeending medications under Oregon’s death with dignity act currently wait 15 days before getting
a prescription yesterday's that allows for an exception for those with less than two weeks to
live opponent did raise concerns removing the waiting period takes a critical safeguards in the
current law they say terminally ill patients need the time to be sure of their decision.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 19 • 6:19 AM

B_JUN_OREG_73

some met last night to consider an ordinance that would be fine the parents of minors who
bully others the penalties could range from 50 bucks up to 300 dollars joining us with more on
this CBS reporter bruce marcus an eagle river Wisconsin hI bruce I should employ shirt always
get attacked anybody how did this come to be anyone was behind ms. I thought there was a
bullying incidents in February or a girl and a 7th grade girl was threatened by some fellow
students they had reportedly written some hand some notes to work urging her to commit
suicide portion and it went by role and unfortunately the girl did not commit suicide she
handling this situation pretty well but it was kind of a catalyst for the school district to do
something.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 19 • 7:38 AM

B_JUN_WASH_40

beginning soon you'll be able to get a doctor's help to end your life sooner the rule changes
likely coming to the first state in the past death with dignity more from kobe bryant Culver
Washington was the second state where voters said the terminally ill have the right to take
their own lives with the help of a doctor the program was modeled after the first state to do so
Oregon and while the rules and waiting periods remain the same here Oregon lawmakers just
passed provisions speeding up the process in certain circumstances now awaiting the
governor's signature is a rule change that declares if you only have 15 days to live the waiting
period for your doctor assisted suicide request is just 48 hours opponents say the shorter
waiting period leaves terminally ill and elderly patients opened manipulation coalition
representative rachel proof sack who also works in hospice care disagrees saying the choice to
pursue assisted suicide is not made lightly.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 19 • 9:37 AM

B_JUN_WASH_41

72

suicide is the leading cause of death in jails across the united states and a new report says many
of those are preventable in hundreds of cases in which people attempt to kill themselves or die
by suicide jails across the country one third had allegedly been denied the prescription
medication to treat mental illness and others jail staff did not recognize warning signs for selfharm or properly monitor at risk inmates that's all according to a new investigation by the
associated press and capital news service at the university of Maryland here walk us through
the findings sharing colin national writer for the associated press welcome to take away sharon
thank you for having me so in your piece you describe a young woman named 10 joe fillmore
who was jailed in Utah and killed herself on thanksgiving day in 2016 why did she spotlighted
her case I think she was a good example of one of the problems that tales are seeing she had
been denied her prescription medications she had threatened to kill herself and event fits into a
broader theme that we saw when we looked at several of the cases of suicides around the
country and tell us a little bit about how frequently that is because I’m trying to understand
how someone could be incarcerated be needed medication and be denied that medication well
there are reasons that some experts say that drugs are not provided prescription drugs are not
provided in jails and some people believe that it's not a good idea because people manipulate
the system inmates manipulate the system despite asking drugs others believe that it's not a
good idea because it just extends people taking drugs and that they can go without them for a
weaker so short period of time but her experts and sheriffs who think that anybody on
psychotropic drugs should continue to get them and should not be denied them and this jalen
particularly there's a list of drugs that are available this was just an instance where a nurse
denied the drugs to attend a gym he so I would understand a little bit of fervor for myself and
for other people who may not know is it true is it protocol when someone is incarcerated to
have a psychological evaluation and it tends to it usually is but small jail usually don't have the
resources to do that larger jails like cook county jail in Chicago do and they have a team of
experts that work on these things there are screening in most jails but when you get too small
to jails particularly in rural communities those services are not always available and sometimes
the doctors who were on a car they working several jails they troll around to different counties
so v availability isn't the same one of the things we hear a lot about in the conversation around
criminal justice reform is often that a lot of our jails and prisons have become d for mental
institutions and psychiatric hospital because of a lack of those. what's your take on that Yes you
hear that increasingly particular last 10 years or even more in the 19 seventies I thought there
was a change in how the psychiatric patients were treated I think it's possible those closed and
they were supposed to be local services that would meet the needs of those local clinics and
emerges they were expected to be so what she found was a lot of them mentally ill patients
who sometimes get arrested for small things like trespassing ending up in jail and find more and
more mentally ill people in jail in addition to that now you find people who are addicted opioids
mess addicted people who often have signs of depression and mental illness as well so now you
have jailed there filled with mentally ill people and addicted people that put incredible pressure
and jails to find services and the treatment they need again when you deal with smaller jails
those services tend to being that are available are often speaking with Sharon Cohen National
writer for the Associated Press about the cause of high rates of suicide in jails across the
country Sharon beyond the denial of prescription medication where there are other issues that
she found were leading to suicide in prisons. Yes staffing is an issue stephanie and training are
73

two big issues staffing is in many cases jails exposed to look at inmates and monitor them
regulate every 15 minutes every 30 minutes depending on the severity of the inmates
Weathers here she is in isolation and because of staffing that doesn't always happen there have
been instances where inmates Crying for help and two guards have been don't respond to them
again it might be staffing might be they feel that they're just calling out and don't need the help
so that was one problem it indicates that a little bit of a we talk about this on the show a lot but
it feels like there's a little bit of a lack of humanity here towards people who were incarcerated
in need of mental health services I think you hear that from experts in prison attorneys and
others who feel that they don't have the proper treatment and people don't take their cases
seriously and me jail guards don't have the right training and in many cases the jails are trying
to do things about that I offering suicide Prevention training programs other kinds of training
that will help them deal with these inmates can be at times very difficult I mean that that's
understandable I think one of the other things we need to do to bring appears the fact that we
talked about cash bail issues on the show in the past many of the people who were in jail I
thinking I’m thinking about for example Rikers Island and some of the more infamous cases
we've seen there where inmates have taken their lives because they were just waiting to Post
bail what do we know about the number the percentage of those who are not even convicted
of a crime who have died by suicide that is a big problem I think we found by looking at the
cases we surveyed the lawsuit about 80% of the inmates were in jail were awaiting trial so they
had been charged but they have not been convicted of anything and a lot of times in the first
week or so with the stress of the confinement and the fear of what's going to happen to them
creates even more anxiety and more difficulty for these inmates so Yes many of them are just
charged awaiting trial no conviction what about accountability have you found that in cases
where medication was denied that there has been accountability I haven't found that very
much what you do find is in cases where there are lawsuits sometimes there's 7 months
afterwards you see major reforms made that happen in the case in California we'll look at or
the sheriff after suicide share of a under a man named the changes in the jail including better
surveillance better training additional staff so after lawsuit sometimes the changes prompted
by lawsuits and in that case you see reforms and other cases there aren't those changes.
Sharon Cohen is national writer with the associated press. thank you for your reporting.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 19 • 3:00 PM

B_JUN_OREG_74

Oregon’s governor has a life and death decision to make care excels pat boyle reports she's
been asked to tweak the state's assisted suicide law the house has passed and sent on to kate
brown an amendment that says if you have fewer than 15 days to live you only have to wait 48
hours to get their ads to end your life right now you must ask your doctor wait 15 days then
make a written request and then another two days before you can get your prescriptions filled
opponents claim 48 hours is not enough time to make life and death decision will west then-rep
rachel cruze sack whose hospice care nurse says patients do not make this kind of decision
lightly oregon's law has been on the books since 1997 resulting in more than 14 100 assisted
suicides.

74

FM News 101 KXL
Jun 19 • 3:07 PM

B_JUN_OREG_75

some interesting should you have to pay a fine if your child is bullying I heard proposal like this
over the years people say the bullying is a problem because schools prevent kids from actually
reacting appropriately to a bullet a great dancer from bully is punch in the nose if somebody
bullies you and your friends won't come to your defense you need to find better friends but let
me give this example Darren o' Brien 38 who said his 3 children have been bullied hopes they
propose city ordinance will help the school district in Wisconsin rapids Wisconsin where he
lived stop all 3 of during Bryant’s teenage daughters who are being bullied at school he says
they've been shoved into lockers one was served viciously recorded what's crime dad wanted
to call the cops another told kill herself now he's hoping a proposal in Wisconsin rapids
Wisconsin will actually help stem harassment in the district making parents pay up to 300
dollars in fines and fees if their kids bully other people's kids Craig bro ryan who is the
superintendent Wisconsin rapids public schools says he asked to municipalities to assess the
district's bullying policy last fall all but the review took on more urgency in February when notes
telling a 7th grader to kill herself surfaced online under you track down a little creepy did that
that is effectively a threat and again I think that's a criminal act if you serve official records
somebody without two-party consent in most states that's a crime if you threaten somebody's
life force safety by telling them to kill themselves I think you could make you could make the
case that that is the crime of intimidation somebody could be amazingly intimidated by
something like that that's a criminal act go after trump used the tools you got but suggesting
that we should find parents most if your art didt daughters are teenagers and they're being
harassed by other teenagers only this if there's a parent out there who tolerates the bullying by
their 15 or 16 year-old son or daughter you really think the that para public that parent he get a
handle on his son or daughter's actions because I think that's extremely unlikely.
FM News 101 KXL
Jun 19 • 6:55 PM

B_JUN_OREG_76

I feel like a lot of time if some of those you're against things like physician-assisted suicide I am
more is transitioning from male to female or vice versa but I think that that there's no greater
personal liberty and ellis with this take up position assisted suicide and the citing how you
ultimately and her own life I don't I bet that unfairly decision other people should hope but
john the break make or you know what I find this so ironic and I’ll tell you why human beings
have had the capability of killing themselves as long as human beings around hundreds of
thousands of years amid of if some prehistoric person one issue throng she thought of the tree
off the top of the cliff for into a raging river here she could take a life today by having physicianassisted suicide you not just invited you've allowed the government to come in and find not
only how you do it where you do it what way you do it what method used for doing it and what
the timing is you can only do it when you sit on all let me finish it you can only do when you're
the sec so you just taken something where you had complete autonomy to do it if you wanted
to I don't agree was a suicide but I or had lunch I think that it wasn't going to go ahead did I
think the situation more complex and expensive just invited the government take a role in
75

deciding it and you and your complain about liberty's he if you want free liberty I don't invite
the government to be part of the decision one of my one of the things you just talk I wouldn't
call and more I don't believe that I am so across and good but I think the situation more
complex also have not yet heard yet from the end of a lifeline in third you're just got one
minute on the break I don't get the feeling we're going to get the answer how is inviting the
government to be part of your decisions.
RO-AM (Radio)
Jun 20 • 10:07 PM

B_JUN_WASH_42-X

young Americans are killing themselves in record numbers the victims of the confluence of the
economic and sociological factors that would single them out even above a nationwide surgeon
so-called deaths of despair suicide rates among teens and young adults aged 15 to 24 the older
end of generation Z he spiked in 2017 reaching their highest level what the heck is going on
Let's check in with our resident psychiatrist Dr Peter Ragan Peter what do you think what's your
take on this well if it is going to be an ongoing discussion has been you know we've talked about
the theft of the spare drug abuse and overdose that going up and that probably not intentional
though some who will be now we have a suicide going up witches there's intentional but the
impending all the time don't I kind of make level george even afford thrived on making people
feel I think helpless to get them and we are really from so many and so many directions we
teaching our kids could feel that they have to be sensitive all mobile and timid and fearful
where the image you gave vonn defeat your previous segment where and help people get out
number one name and feel all the stress from the eu they weigh end of the day what happened
about getting up number one thing and doing what you believe in and taking responsibility of
having a work ethic and believing in god our country or some other strong motive they yeah I
just say I’m going to take on the day am I win we're not doing that we're not allowing our kids
do that with the american psychological association is refusing to budge from an official
statement the cockpit masculinity in effect in iowa a population and our children I was a boy
with think white children are being taught that they're inherently bad especially the boys and
many of the suicide doing the best job of the drugs peter of and prescription drugs these kids I
think that this hike yet picked a you another big hearted event and they are on this caption
drugs no so there there'd be no they're probably on street drugs as well and you know with his
teaching our kids fat help with what have they got to look for you last time I can barely contain
myself we hot because you gave me permission to talk about terrible thing putting electrode if I
had boy used to be mostly our boys food good coo or what it to throw their electronic brain at
away back who what can we do as a society to prevent suicides with these kids responsibility
again individuality again personal strength again and the things that encouraged and I you can
look at it they spend more growler be I think from many showed up belief in god the belief in
the hunt 3 of the league and things like that give us strength and reuses philip bum all things in
many ways the belief well fool reach other group offered god love for own lives the way we
want to take them a of assaulting squelched by such a large segment of society either you have
and political power progressives pushing things like toxic masculinity know you don't have the
sexual identity and you choose your own nothing to hang on to nothing to be strong about and
do well industry to make a fortune overs selling it for these the of social networking to our kids
76

failing food they don't need it's all pretty much of that joy is undermining our children it's got to
stop peter thank you so much one of peter's book spot where his guilt shame and anxiety
understanding in overcoming negative emotions his website his name linked up our twitter
feed the coast to coast and I’m bringing that. thank you.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 20 • 10:20 PM

B_JUN_WASH_43

Young kids I have 15 to 24 are committing suicide in record numbers Is very thing you're in your
mind is there a deficiency of anything in addition to their emotional distress absolutely in fact it
was my love for my radio program during the day and or other Fame program of got interesting
that came up in my book a rare earth intrusion captures 4 5 and 6 peppers stakes and Pacific
said the Kyle Shepherd takes is a man of peace here we need them bad feed and he married a
movie a bad thing Yep and a little girl okay and rape we have right now we have under the age
of 6 we've had over one million kids who are on psychotropic drugs as did the there's a great
study done in the 19 seventies and 19 eighties and 27 counties in texas it found that these kids
we were talking kids and they can okay for committing suicide he can and violence made these
guys to a commit school shootings whether 19 years old or violent and talking about
committing suicide in balance work and school shootings when there were like 10 or 12 years
old 9 years earlier and nobody listened to them crying out well I just want to put him in jail or
taken out of school okay they just didn't know what to do well basically need to pare else the
way in confirm this deficiency in the hurdle for him in the study and 27 counting I get it you're
helpless unlike can the 1000 people and they found that he may have a high suicide rates of
drug addiction murders school shootings a domestic violence.
KDRV (ABC)
Jun 20 • 12:22 PM

B_JUN_OREG_77

new research finds the suicide rate in the united states has risen 33-percent from nearly 20
years ago. that's according to the u-s centers for disease control and prevention's national
center for health statistics. this morning they announced among people 15 to 64 -- suicide rates
increased significantly. it's up from 11 for every 100- thousand people in 19-99 -- to 14 for every
100 thousand in 20- 17. that's the highest level since world war two. according to the research - those who identify as American Indian or Alaska natives had the highest increase among all
race and ethnicity groups. if you or someone you know is dealing with suicidal thoughts -- call
the national suicide prevention lifeline - that number is on your screen now and you can also
find it on our website kdrv. com.
KHQ (NBC)
Jun 20 • 9:31 AM

B_JUN_WASH_44

With new numbers showing that suicide rates are climbing in the u-s. we're now seeing a 33percent increase in cases from 1999. suicide rates among people age 15 to 64 increased
significantly during that period between then and 201th's according to new research from the
77

national center for health statistics. between 1999 and 2016. the state of Idaho has seen an
increase of suicides by more than 43-percent. Montana experienced about 29 suicides for every
100- thousand people... the highest in the nation.
KEZI (ABC)
Jun 20 • 6:40 AM

B_JUN_OREG_78

new research this morning shows that over the past two decades... the suicide rate in the
united states has risen an alarming... 33-percent. it's this morning's health alert. that's
according to the u-s centers for disease control and prevention. the research shows among
people 15 to 64, suicide rates increased significantly... up from 11 per 100- thousand people in
1999... to 14 per 100- thousand in 2017. that's the highest level since world war two.
remember, if you or someone you know needs help. the national suicide prevention lifeline
provides 24-7 support, seven days a week. their number is on your screen 1-800-273-8255.
KDRV (ABC)
Jun 20 • 11:15 AM

B_JUN_OREG_79

new research finds the suicide rate in the united states has risen. There is no text available for
this station at this date and time. 33-percent from nearly 20 years ago. that's according to the
u-s centers for disease control and prevention's national center for health statistics. they
announced Thursday... among people 15 to 64 ... suicide rates increased significantly. 14 of
every 100-thousand people 2017 committed suicide. that's the highest level since world war
two. also, according to the research-- those who identify as American Indian or Alaska natives
had the highest increase among all race and ethnicity groups. if you or someone you know is
thinking about suicide... the number for the national suicide lifeline on your screen. you can
also send a text to the text line.
KBNZ
Jun 20 • 12:05 PM

B_JUN_OREG_80

a measure that will akus waiting period is headed assisted suicide law fesk.or governor brown's
d those s medications undereeking life ending with Oregon’s death have to dignity act
currentlyetting a pr wait 15 days before g make an escription. but senators voted tothan two
weeks to exception for those with less patients would live. those wait 48 hours still need to
access lethal before medication. there have han 1400 been more tregon since the assisted
suicides in o law went into effect in construction business in centra 1997.
KHQ (NBC)
Jun 20 • 5:05 PM

B_JUN_WASH_45

tonight, we are learning new details on the rising number of suicide deaths is the u-s. there has
been a 33-percent increase in cases from 1999 to 2017. in 2016 Washington state saw more
78

than 11-hundred suicides which puts us at 26th in the nation. the state of Idaho has seen an
increase of suicides by more than 43-percent with 361 suicides in 2016. Montana experienced
about 29 suicides for every 100- thousand people... the highest in the nation. if you or someone
you know is struggling right now there are resources available.... the national suicide
prevention number is... 1-800- 273-8255
KEZI (ABC)
Jun 20 • 8:20 PM

B_JUN_OREG_81

New research shows suicide rates have gone up an alarming 33 percent... in the past two
decades. in tonight's health alert: the cdc says for 15 to 64-year olds, deaths were up from 11
per 100- thousand people in 1999... to 14 per 100- thousand in 2017. that's the highest level
since world war two. if you or someone you know needs help -- you can call the national suicide
prevention lifeline 24 hours a day, seven days a week. their number is on your screen 1-800273-8255.
KNDO (NBC)
Jun 20 • 6:20 PM

B_JUN_WASH_46

… a family still learning to live without their son, that field is where the seed of his legacy was
planted. I mean, we did everything. everything humanly possible to help our son. and,
unfortunately can imagine. kess just lost hope. losing a child. we lost our son, kess collins,
december 22nd. annie ackerman-brown and her family don't have to imagine it at all. this was
kess. but to get to teach you about kess's impact. this isn't even his jersey; he forgot his jersey.
you have to start with the sport. we signed him up for lacrosse not even knowing what it was.
that changed his life. prior to him playing lacrosse, he really lacked self-esteem. that sport is
where this story starts... a lot of kids that have been touched by him either through him directly
or through his family, and, you know, they knew what a great kid he was, and then what a great
lacrosse player he was too. nat pop where everyone was blessed by kess. and when kess died,
the local coaches wanted to do a helmet decal in honor of kess. something small and visible.
and that's how victory and honor came out. that sparked an idea. some people have made a
necklace with it, which I think is a little gaudy. challenge coins. he would like that. offering a
symbol of perseverance with a little lacr yes, it has a lacrosse theme, but on the other side of it,
there's a bigger story to it, right. kess's story. and a cautionary tale for people struggling for
hope. a thousand coins later. each with a personalized, handwritten note. touching people as
far away as the United Kingdom. it's pretty amazing to think about where he's at and how many
lives kess is touching, it's pretty phenomenal. and it brings joy. and hopefully life as well. every
time I can send a coin out, it means there's still an opportunity that someone is still here with
us. but like the helmet decal, the coins are only a step. we need to be proactive, and we need to
be at the youth level to change this. to give kids the tools that kess didn't have. kind of how this
is turning into, cooper, is the project that we're launching, and it's called chill, you know, one,
because kids need to chill out, right. the idea goes much further. it's an acronym. and it's
coping, healing, intuition, love, and life. it's the foundation of a curriculum the browns hope will
make it into the school system. these kids are our future, and we need to be involved, and we
79

need to let kids know they matter. the browns proudly use kess's story to help people like their
son. just as he would want. kess had, you know, he had struggled. and he had some PTSD and
mental health issues, and he always wanted to work with kids like himself. and today he is.
more than ever. because kess will never be defined by his suicide. and please remember -there is help available 24-seven. if you or someone you know needs someone to talk to, you can
always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your screen, it's... 800273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 20 • 9:39 PM

B_JUN_OREG_82

a survivor of a suicide attempt and one of 14 people profiled for the ask the question project.
>> the goal for ask the question is to bring this into the light. and the question is, are you okay?
are you really okay? >> recently she spoke to a group of seniors at the adult center about
something most people don't want to talk about. >> it was 2014 when I attempted suicide. >> a
16% higher rate of suicide than the national average. >> why is it higher here and we have some
guesses. >> nina danielson the coordinator. >> we know in our county there are folks that have
more risk factors going on for them, which could explain part of the reason why we have a
higher rate. >> risk factors include the number of older adults who live in more rural or isolated
environments. >> when I think of suicide, I think of trouble teenagers. >> but the reality is the
risk of suicide hits every age. >> I think it's there hasn't been much done to acknowledge the
fact that senior citizens are committing suicide. it's just been overlooked, in my opinion, like a
lot of other things for senior citizens. >> I’m here for you when we're together like this our such
powerful words. >> when speaking to the group she said telling someone you care can go a long
way. >> maybe why the suicide rate is so high because we feel like nobody cares. if we get into
a place where we feel like nobody cares we are in a dark place. helping and telling other people
that you do care is so valuable. >> behavioral health housing and human services along with the
arts alliance launched the ask a question project. traveling hospital to hospital and you can see
them in the gallery at providence Milwaukee. >>>zero suicide committee is working with some
members from the request the question project along with other people with lived experience
to develop an attempt survivor support group. the first of its kind inform community. >>>I think
the fact that we are in the process of starting a suicide attempt survivor group is monumental.
the fact that somebody can google potentially and see that support is available. that when a
hospital is discharging somebody from being admitted for a suicide attempt and know that a
resource could be available for them for support with peers who have lift experience. that to
me is one of the most profound impacts of the project. >>>the group is still in the development
phase, but county officials are optimistic they will be able to roll it out in the fall. >>>if you need
to talk to someone right now reach out to the experts at the suicide prevention lifeline. that
number is 1-800-273-talk. you can also text home to 741741. or you can get more information
at suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KONG-SEA
Jun 21 • 12:13 AM

B_JUN_WASH_47

80

reporter: the end of the cool year is to examine how far you are come and for some the journey
has been much tougher than others. >> I was wanting to give up. I’m a teenager. I thought
nobody was going to understand. >> reporter: sharmane stark has been homeless the last yearand-a-half. she stays at a youth shelter. last winter she didn't even have warm shoes to wear.
life can be a struggle but thanks to a program in the everett schools, she is thriving. >> the big
struggle I have is feeling I’m alone at times and nobody is there to help me and I feel like being
here, there are so many opportunities for anybody to help me. >> reporter: the program is
called panorama and it measures social and emotional learning for students grades 3- 12. they
are given a survey saying do you worry about violence and do you feel you belong? schools can
spot trends in individuals and groups and teachers can come up with interventions to make
things better. >> even students who look like they have it all together often don't. >> cascade
high school principal kathy woods points to a young man's suicide before the program began.
no one knew how much he was struggling. >> if we do these things we can find out if something
is really bothering a student. >> the issue was getting this done in a timely fashion. >> reporter:
sharmane plans to be a nurse after senior year, confident she will have the support of her
school. >> I feel like I can be successful and move forward to accomplish what I want to do. >>
reporter: in everett, eric wilkinson, king 5 news.
KMVU (FOX)
Jun 21 • 2:12 AM

B_JUN_OREG_83

jesse: earlier this year, actress allison mack pled guilty to charges of racketeering, both mack
and raniere will be sentenced in September. >> three faces life in prison. now to the family of
the masked gunman who opened fire outside of the federal building in Dallas is speaking out.
army veteran brian clyde of Fort Worth died in the shoot-out with police. the 22-year-old was
armed with a military style rifle and over 150 rounds of ammunition. his parents are now
sharing for the first time that they believe he wanted to be killed. >> to be honest with myself
and what I feel my heart is I ultimately think that he did not want to hurt anybody. I think that
he went down there purely for suicide by cop. >> jesse: his parents also revealed that he was
hospitalized during his time in the army and they discussed suicide and mental health with him
somewhat regularly. but they say that they still had no warning signs that this was coming,
fortunately, no one else was injured in the gunfight.
KMTR (NBC)
Jun 21 • 9:10 AM

B_JUN_OREG_84

as we reported yesterday, a new report from the cdc finds suicide rates in America are at the
highest levels since world war ii. in Oregon the rate rose is much is 29%. our sister station takes
a look at a project hopes to make it easier for older adults to open up and ask the question. this
some the story contains subject matter that may be difficult for some. truck leona childress is
an independent happy person but she says that is only one side she let people see until
recently. >> I think I have gotten to the point in my life where it is okay for people to know that
you are not superwoman. >> reporter: she is a survivor of a suicide attempt in one of 14 people
profiled for the ask the question project in clackamas county. >> the goal is to bring this into the
81

light. the question is are you okay? are you really okay?>> reporter: recently she spoke to a
group of seniors at the molalla adult center about something most people don't want to talk
about. >> it was 2014 when I attempted suicide. truck clackamas county has a 60% higher rate
of suicide in the national average. why is it higher here? we have some guesses.>> reporter:
nina danielson is the health promotional coordination port clackamas health. >> we know that
in our county there are folks that have multiple factors going on with them that could explain
why we have a higher rate. >> reporter: risk factors include the number of older adults who live
in more rule or isolated environments. >> when I think of suicide I think of troubled teenagers.
>> reporter: the reality is the risk of suicide hits every age. >> I think it is because there hasn't
been that much done to acknowledge the fact that senior citizens are committing suicide. it has
just been overlooked in my opinion like a lot of other things for senior citizens. I am here for
you when we are together like this are such powerful words. >> reporter: was speaking to the
group she says simply telling someone you care can go a long way. >> that may be why the
suicide rate is so high because we feel like nobody cares. we get to a place where we feel like
nobody cares. we are in a dark place. helping and telling other people that you do care so
valuable.
KVAL (CBS)
Jun 21 •9:11 AM

B_JUN_OREG_85

a Connecticut man is facing charges after state police say he assisted a family member in
suicide and supporters of assisted suicide are speaking out. >> reporter: kevin connors turned
himself in to state police thursday after police say he assisted a family member in dying by
suicide in September 2018. now the 65-year-old man from westbrook is charged with second
degree manslaughter. earlier this year, state lawmakers considered the aid in dying bill that
would legalize assisted suicide. allowing doctors to prescribe a lethal dose of medication to
adults who are terminally ill and have less than six months to live. the measure was a focus of
debate but died in committee. >> so many states are passing these laws now and over 20% of
americans having access to these laws, zip codes or defining end-of-life care. and end-of-life
choices for some. that is wrong. Connecticut should do better. >> reporter: tim appleton works
for compassion and choices, an organization that focuses to improve care and expand options
for people at the end of life. although he does not know the details about Connor’s case, to
save the family member could have benefited from the aid in dying bill. >> Connecticut resident
should have access to the slot and it should join the one out of five Americans and other states
that do. the family members aren't faced with this terrible choice that could land them in the
criminal justice system. >> reporter: however, advocates for those with disabilities are worried
that families could take advantage of the bill if it was enacted.
KNDO (NBC)
Jun 22 • 9:00 PM

B_JUN_WASH_48

Teen depression and suicide is a nationwide problem. but locally, one tri-cities teen is making
strides to fight that abby faulk is the founder of the u matter campaign, a campaign all about
raising awareness for teen depression and suicide. faulk hosted the first ever u matter day in
82

howard amon park today. the event featured guest speakers, bounce houses, face painting and
cotton candy all to raise awareness about such a critical issue. faulk who has depression in the
past hopes this event will inspire others going through something similar to ask for help I hope
that it will inspire teens to reach out to other teens that are struggling I hope that I can educate
the youth on how we can prevent suicides together and I hope that this will inspire more teens
to get out in their communities and passionate about topics the funds raised by the event will
go towards the youth suicide prevention coalition which helps get teens the treatment they
need.
KTVL (CBS)
Jun 23 • 6:55 AM

B_JUN_OREG_86

armstrong: economics today, we are talking about human touch of compassion and letting
people know be still love and care and feel for each other. >> a lot of things we think are
problems, it is nothing. family is important. friends, standing up for each other, paying people
back who kept your family safe, that's what is important in life, and not this other stuff. >>
armstrong: you said something interesting. your guy called you, and you would have stopped
him. you have to realize that sometimes you lose people along the way. sometimes there are
people you cannot save. >> and as I think about him, I am grateful I only had to go through that
once. I have had close to 20 graduates. >> armstrong: what is so unique about what you do with
the 20 that did not find the path of suicide? >> I believe it has to do with honesty. it is finding
common ground. there is not a lot of loose general tees or plat tudes thrown around. I can sit
down and make my expectations known. >> they can't run it on you because you know. >> I ran
it on her. we can talk like brothers, and there is no emphasis or expectation for me to be polite.
and a lot of times that's preferred to be able to sit down and have a conversation that is cut out
90% of the police centuries and just -- pleasant res. >> armstrong: it is interesting because there
are people who just don't want to be a burden to anyone else. just don't want to -- and you
know there are always somebody unique. sometimes the person you least expect and will pour
their heart out to you and they will care and show you unconditional sorts. sometimes it is not
always a family member. we emphasize family, and sometimes that is not the place you go.
sometimes it takes a strange tore set an example. you don't always have to go to a family
member. strangers with a heart and a conscious and who you have no idea what shoes they
had to walk in to become who they are today. of it can make all of the difference -- it can make
all of the difference in your lives. I don't want you to think you just have to reach out to family
and friends because sometimes the answer is not there, judge. >> I agree. >> armstrong: what
did we learn today? we have about two minutes left. what did they say -- what do we say to
people who are thinking of suicide? you never completely heal, but you can find how to live and
navigate it. what is your wisdom for them? >> people don't realize how much they are loved. I
think that's one of the reasons that a lot of my comrades have checked out. they feel like they
have disappointed their friends and family and community. they are struggling with who they
have become, and they are not happy with it. after seeing the rigors of combat, sometimes
taking a gunshot wound is the least of your concerns. they have to know they are loved, and
people care for them and complete strangers care for them. we wouldn't be having that
conversation if the level of concern was not in flint, michigan today. they just have to keep
83

remembering that and keep remembering that. you are not alone, and someone loves you.
someone will reach out. >> armstrong: I want to say this because I have been in rwanda for the
last week and a half and in the jungle and the gorillas. we just got back in recently, and they
tried to convince me that I was probably too lagged to get here today. as the owner of nbc25 to
host this town hall, I said it doesn't matter. unless somebody pronouce me dead from what
those men and women sacrificed, I will be here on one foot. I care and you should too. thank
you for joining us.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 23 • 7:39 AM

B_JUN_OREG_87

the golden gate bridge is one of the most recognizable bridges in the world, but it also has a
dark reputation as a place where many people come to end their lives. >> now a Portland
company called vigor industrial is working to change that. its latest project is one that will go
above the water and under the golden gate bridge. it's being constructed inside this warehouse
in clackamas and piece by piece being added to the iconic golden gate bridge, a suicide
deterrent system. but this is not a fence or any kind of barrier like that. in fact, once installed,
this system will be barely noticeable. >> for the most part, these devices, this net system will
not be visible. from the roadway, people really won't notice it. but it will do its job and do it
very well. >> reporter: the net system is going in about 20 feet below the bottom deck of the
bridge, about a quarter of the system is already in place. the rest is still being manufactured. it's
made out of stainless steel and eventually span the entire length of the bridge, nearly 9000
feet. and most important it will be impossible to jump over. >> statistics show that once these
systems are in place, the attempts pretty much stop. >> this is going to prevent a lot of people
from dying by suicide. >> reporter: it's a project david west brooke with the suicide prevention
nonprofit group lines for life says works. >> there's good research that when you prevent
somebody from dying in one spot or by one method, that those individuals never go on to die
by suicide. and that's partly because it's such an impetuous act. >> reporter: the group believes
a similar system could be installed on the vista bridge in southwest Portland . up until about
five years ago the historic bridge averaged two suicide temps ayear. but when this fence was
installed the suicide attempts stopped. some neighbors would like a more attractive permanent
solution. the folks of vigor believe that can be done. >> engineers come in and design
something that will be aesthetically a little more appealing? I certainly hope so and I certainly
believe they can and we would be here to help them do that. >> and it can be done at a much
lower cost. the golden gate bridge project has a price tag of over $200 million. but again, that is
a 9000-foot long bridge. by comparison, the vista bridge is less than 250 feet. >> wow. really a
big difference there. but it's just amazing how we looked at that research there too and how
that hesitation can make a huge difference. and like we said, so many resources out there for
you if you need them as well.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 23 • 1:18 PM

B_JUN_OREG_88

84

we underestimate failures because we're not doing that on the other hand the evidence isn't all
that strong people keep imagining that there's way more depression now than it was 10 years
ago or 50 years ago meant that create evidence there is some pretty strong evidence for young
people between the ages of 18 and 24 special United kingdom there has been a real increase in
anxiety and depression and it might well be that has to do with smartphones in modern media
and perhaps just not sleeping as much not having as much time with real friends but I think
your point is so profound because most of us in the Academy and universities we're
encouraging all of our students to be great you can get a full right you can get into medical
school he didn't get it but you know what that's not the right road for everybody and if even say
to people Hey everybody just relax and enjoy their friends and work that's not quite as opposed
to saying his push to encourage everybody to strive for greatness did United States says
depression raised to the highest in the world to somebody research questions that are just right
for asking people are beginning to get on these things that really takes this evolutionary
approach asking about wine mood insists that all in order to for people to see the question until
after I mean when go a little deeper there you kind of mentioned the statistics but we have
seen a surge in suicide they're up about that over 50% amongst people attended 19 between
2007 2016 we've seen a commensurate them very very similar rise and rates of depression
probably not surprisingly to you given what you've seen you see patience of the time you've
seen this sort of broad overarching research out from the centers for disease control what is
going to lend so Um part of my work is an epidemiology which means that I’m very careful
about talking about these things I haven't actually reviewed the recent evidence for what might
be responsible but there's some things that are obvious an epidemiologist might not occur to
other people a lot of this access to guns and some of it is access to injectable opiates that killed
people sometimes because of an overdose there is an overdose suicide some of them they will
be due to increased depression and hopelessness and the dramatic increase in suicides and
health problems for older White men that's been documented in the past few years man might
well be due to changes in job opportunities and like but isn't mainly due to increases in
depression I’m not sure about that but Here's the sand bird turns out that there are many
suicides and young women working in the fields and world China and apparently net certainly
because their jobs are born in the mail we will be mistreated times but the more important
thing is that they're carrying around with them buckets of insecticide and just one drink doesn't
the dose common kinds of everyday things turnout have a big big influence this is important
from public health mean limiting access to guns and poisons in these places to jump as an
enormous benefit preventing impulsive suicidal for people who might well be so grateful a little
bit later realizing that their whole life really was ahead of him I’m behind them Of internal am
touch with Randolph messy author of good reasons for bad feelings insights from the frontier of
evolutionary psychiatry so out in 2011 the head of the National Institute of Mental Health
thomas Insel it you said this is a quote whatever we've been doing for 5 decades it ain't working
when I look at the numbers the number of suicides number disabilities mortality data it's a busy
mall and it's not getting any better maybe we just need to rethink the whole approach now
that's kind of a rough take on what's happening and do share that take for some of them I want
to express my admiration for Tom and the other top scientists in the field who have not gone
always she washe insane we're getting really quickly now just wait and some people say that
but they're really being quite honest about the challenge we face I think many of them would
85

like to see us work harder to find jeans in the brand low side I really endorse that continuing to
try that is important because there are going to be some diseases that didn't turn out to be
specific causes of perverse surprising Prince's one angle on depression is that it's caused by
inflammation people who have inflammatory diseases autoimmune diseases and things like
rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease and they lied and this is not going to split
all depression but certainly Pence flynn's son and it's like to need a new strategy for treatment I
am in your research have you noticed that there we talked about all the is Munich issues that
people experience I don't think gender differences here.
News Radio KEX
Jun 23 • 2:43 PM

B_JUN_OREG_89

secretary robert wilkie was appreciate the time we also talked about this before it goes 22
veterans were were committing suicide per day I hope that the number is on the decline what
what what is the v.a. doing to contact these folks and and help them get through it as they deal
with so the good thing is once again the president has focused on us he's talked about it I just
kicked off the president's executive task force on suicide prevention the just before it began
talking with you were bummed what we are doing is creating a whole help approached this one
of the tragedy they exist sell beer there 20 veterans a day to take him alive 14 of those 20 are
not in the v.a. system we have to find them what the president wants me to do was open the
aperture when it comes to grants and cooperation with the private sector so that we get
charities involved we get the no other non-governmental organize all we get tribal government
and bald so that we can go out and find these people but I will say this if if we just look at the
last tragic act in a veterans like we're not going to get very far we have to concentrate in my
view and I’m not a medical professional i've spent my entire life and defend thought we
afternoon get our arms around mental health issues we're not even at the sputnik state when it
comes to having what goes on in the brain and I will tell you we're not going to be able to
prevent all of these that the semen of the human heart the human condition is such that you
just never know what will happen to be an example Cleveland last month veteran took his life
for our property he was in his 60s he was living with his mother that he was looking at the
surgery that would have resulted in the removal of an ally of his vocal cords finished law it and
he didn't want to live like that it so he left this note on our property saying please take care my
mother those are the kinds of things that no matter what we do just the natural hello human
life will and it I hate it we can't stop all of that we know we know that that had a short but I
would I would this is the now on secretary when somebody leaves the 8th of the armed forces
there now veteran they serve us they've been in places that I can't even fathom I have signed
what does a process it can thank you have nice life I got to be some within the care afterward a
great come to us and they get an immediate mental health screening so since this this school
year began on October first we had 100000 do veterans come into the system all 900000 of
those have been screened for mental health issue of those 900000 we're following day nearly
3000 who have given us an indication that they may want to harm themselves well all the tricks
and pitfalls of this is that old that 20 veterans to take their lives we know that more than half of
them have never had a mental health diagnosis serious and shown indications that have mental
health issues so it is now mandatory that when you come to us you get a mental health
86

screening for us about the first step in a second chance if you go to audit murphy not began not
too far away here's and you say you had an issue we have same-day mental health
appointments maps for everyone they get it right then I do yeah and even those who perceive
other than honorable discharges and I know being a military city there everybody is listening he
knows what that means this president has told us that we have to reach out to them we
contacted 100000 servicemembers receive another inaudible discharge and said if you could do
you feel that you have an issue please come to us now and the other folks who are the folks
who was speaking also noted in many cases and other than honorable discharge means you did
something wrong in the military but we're looking for those who may have been discharged
because no one recognized that they may have had a brain injury or traumatic experience
overseas was not caught it is a secretary robert wilkie so for those listening right now on
another that time was short I appreciate you taking some time with me and great axes as
always for those listening.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 23 • 3:56 PM

B_JUN_WASH_49

a Utah doctor who murdered his wife was found dead today at the Utah state prison. prison
sources claim it appears to be a suicide. >> alexis called me. and we both just screamed and
cried. >> it didn't surprise me that he committed suicide. he had recently lost his appeal. and he
was going to remain in prison. and he probably saw it as just no life at all. >> he killed himself
just a couple days before the ten-year anniversary of my mother's murder. rachel, vanessa, and
I were standing over his body. seeing him in the funeral home. >> I was able to finally feel some
peace with my father. I was able to tell my father that I forgave him, that I loved him, and not
feel fear and not feel anger. >> I was able to let go of feeling that hatred and that pain and just
obsessing over my father's act.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Jun 24 • 3:14 PM

B_JUN_WASH_50

turns out rock legend Alice cooper takes his wedding vows so seriously he's not even going to
let death get in the way of his marriage. the 71-year-old rock legend told the uk outlet "the
mirror" he has a shocking pact with his wife Cheryl. they've been married 43 years, and this is
what he told "the mirror" -- we made a pact. there's no way of surviving without each other. so,
people were kind of confused about those comments. the comments went viral. people were
wondering what he meant. so, he clarified, no, it's not a suicide pack. if that's what people are
wondering. it's a life pact. that's what he called it. this is what he said, what I was meaning is
we're almost always together on the home or on the road that if something did happen to us,
we would likely be together at the time. >> that makes a lot of sense. I knew he didn't have I
suicide pact because his bad boy rocker image, that's all a persona. him and his super manager
Jeff Gordon cooked up many moons ago to make him become a superstar. the real deal on
Alice cooper is he doesn't drink, he's very religious. he said he's never cheated on his life. and
he's a 71-year-old grandpa that lives in Arizona. doesn't sound much like a suicide pact kind of
guy to me. >> sounds like a 71-year-old grandpa that lives in Arizona.
87

News Radio KEX
Jun 24 • 1:08 PM

B_JUN_OREG_90

it's that time walk there is a year issues of the vote here just one of two official nowhere
around and grappling with end-of-life decisions is just an unpleasant but certain thing we're all
going to have to do I don't know what you would do in this situation I hope you never end up
there but it's one of those situations that our system does not seem well I tuned to addressing
or leaving alone of taiz story a terminally ill wife suffering from a hellish yearlong battle with
cancer and chooses to take her own life because the cancerous terminal she has her husband
hold a gun to her head because she was too weak to do so she pulls the trigger herself and then
of course that's a very sad story des is a sad story we all own prolonged illness is a sad story
that her husband had to go through that loving her as he must have having to be there with her
not having but I’m sure he wanted to be with her in her last moments but being there with her
how hayne full that had to be for him but having held the gun not pull the trigger he's now
being charged with manslaughter for holding the gun kevin connors is miamI 65 years old his
wife of 42 years laurie pulled the trigger she killed herself in September last year at their home
in westbrook connect she was battling cancer she been undergoing chemotherapy and she also
had lyme disease she no longer wanted to live she had researched going to vermont where
assisted suicide is legal to end her life but realized that because she was not a resident it would
not be an option so I suppose vermont because they have an assisted suicide and blown would
have determined we don't want people coming here for this purpose this is just something
we're willing to allow for our residents on september 6th connors steady the gun at her temple
as his wife lay in bed because she was so weak she could hold on around what she pulled the
trigger he called 9.1 and claim she shot herself and he woke up to the sound of a gunshot when
police questioned him further he admitted that he helped her last week he was charged with
manslaughter lawrie had written 16 notes explaining her decision before she died in them she
told how much she loved her husband how much she loved their children how she was deeply
religious but that she did not want to go on living on the night of her death she was lying in bed
and ask her husband to help her she attempted suicide once before alone and had been
unsuccessful the cancer she fought started in 2017 and her ovaries and then spread to her liver
of her colon and her abdomen it was particularly painful for her because her persistent lyme
disease in addition did not agree with the cancer treatment she was receiving as a result she
was in constant and agony she was so weak about the time she had her husband said that she
could not even muster the streets to crack connor said that after unsuccessfully trying to take
her own life the first time she feared she would be institutionalized wherever you stand on this
issue I would hope that for all of us our first emotion would be empathy and mercy and
compassion first of all for this woman having undergone this painful terminal illness I think
before you talk about policy there has to be a pause to say the joy of living is going to be
tempered by the fact that in the physical sense we're all going to die and this is a tough way to
go and I don't know that there is a perfect answer these really weighty decisions did he in

88

sacked assist her do we want to encourage a husband to also his wife if he's tired of if he's
beleaguered if he's we aree of taking care of her would that happen without the fear of
prosecution I don't know I suspect would but what is the option what is the option for an
individual like her if she says my races run weary I’m exhausted I am done should there be an
option should be completely left in god's hands and should she simply suffer until it's over I
don't know I don't claim to know I recognize that there are difficulties to every aspect of this I
confess I spent a lot of time studying the doctor because working and case when it was ongoing
and I do not believe I have argued this years ago when this was raging discussion people used
to call up and talk about what a monster that man was I used to say you can disagree with what
he did you can say that it should not be legal but I don't think it's fair to say that could work in
was a monster I think he was an individual who watched a lot of people dying and who came to
the conclusion as a doctor that he wanted to allow his patients to determine when they die in
the case of a terminal illness and that he was willing to risk his freedom he was willing to risk his
career he was willing to risk his financial stability in order to ensure that we can disagree with
somebody action without making amount to be the most all for human being ever we can
simply disagree and that's fine if we want to disagree but I never felt that jack who work in with
some sort of a monster I think he is a guy who is trying to help people and you watched a lot of
people.
KAPP (ABC)
Jun 24 • 8:00 PM

B_JUN_WASH_51

A Kennewick man has been arrested for rape of a child. 41-year-old louis mendez is currently on
a 24-hour hold in benton county jail. police say the child he abused was known to him. officers
were notified of the incident after the child told a family friend of the abuse and was taken to
the hospital. prosecutors have until Wednesday to file charges against mendez. a selah man is
accused of repeatedly raping a teenage girl, then shooting himself with a crossbow last year
before police could arrest him. last year, Yakima county deputies responded to 65- year-old
wesley weikel's home on a report that he'd made sexual contact with a teen girl. deputies
found out he had sex with her at least 10 times after finding text messages that supposedly
confirmed the abuse. when deputies arrived weikel shot himself in the face twice with a
crossbow in an apparent suicide attempt.
KFXO (FOX)
Jun 24 • 5:15 PM

B_JUN_OREG_91

charles: moving on to khloe and what she's saying about tristan thompson is the threat of a
suicide attempt from tristan. this was the big episode on keeping up with the kardashians
where khloe confronts tristan about hookin up with Jordyn woods and she says not only did he
apologize and say he went too far but then mentioned suicide. here's the discussion she had
with scott disick about it. >> he said can't stop thinking about and you what mess I have caused.
>> I think you're definitely going to have a conversation with him, obviously. >> yeah, but he's
doing this to get a reaction out of me. >> he knows -- we know that. >> so I’m just allowed to
89

say I’m going to kill myself at any time? that's crazy. >> sounds like she didn't take it seriously.
harvey: that he's manipulating her. >> at the end of the day she seems like a very caring person
and I think he knows that so that might have thought that would get her there, have a
conversation and maybe move forward together but she was not having it. >> I think scott
made a great point, that khloe was the one put president -- hurt hoar and yet she still cared
about tristan's well-being. we think of them as the kardashians and tristan thompson but these
are people going through a touch break-up and to see they grieve the end of a rhythm like real
people I thought was interesting. harvey: you're missing something here, that they chose to put
this on television and that's a statement. >> they make money off amp their life, though -- 1
harvey: no, I’m not talking about making money some as -- she clearly wanted to put that out
there. >> she wanted to expose him in a way -- harvey: she's angry, yeah. I’m just saying that
they have choices in the -- 1 >> I don't know if you're right about that, harvey. in the moment,
she cared about him. she sent somebody over to make sure he was ok and then to have this
diabolical plot to expose him on the tv show -- harvey: no, she did send someone over and she
is caring but once they shot the show, she's saying it was manipulative. charles: they made the
decision to leave it in the show. >> she had to put it in the show. the only response we saw
when it first happened, he tweeted fake news. now we really know it was real news and he was
really sorry, our attempting to be. caller: I just want to say I feel like he wanted to flip
something around so he could have her feel bad for him, yes, and get her there. because
usually people who commit suicide just do it. they don't threaten and they zaire -- say they're
going do it at the beginning. I don't know at this point because he did her wrong too many
times. harvey: they're co-parenting and being adults about it and that's a good thing. taking a
break.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Jun 24 • 9:03 PM

B_JUN_OREG_92

a number of landmark education bills passed over the last few months, related to our coverage
of classrooms and crisis. >> our investigative series has been showing you the rise of classroom
disruption in schools across oregon. we've heard of students having emotional and physical out
first and hurting others in elementary schools. >> these stories detentions to the crisis. our
investigator explains the education laws passed this session. >> reporter: we will start to
explain this success act. this is called unprecedented, historic, simply put, a big deal. the largest
school funding package ever passed in Oregon is going to pump $1 billion into the state school
system. they passed a tax on all businesses that make more than $1 million. what will go
towards? things like lower class sizes, mental health support and early childhood education.
you may remember last month that republicans did something similar to what they are doing
now. they refuse to go to work unless democrats agreed to kill a vaccine and gun bill. which
they did. something else we want to highlight; it is called the safe classrooms bill. this fix is
something that we pointed out in our very first classrooms and crisis story. we sat down with
teachers and they told us about violence happening in the classrooms and why they say the law
made it impossible for them to handle it appropriately. >> this student is flipping out. you
cannot touch them. by law, you cannot touch them. >> that is correct. unless they are going to
inflict physical harm on themselves. then, you know, you might want to try to calm them down
90

as best as you can but really, no touching. >> reporter: this law will change that. it clarifies a
physical restraint law passed in 2011, interpreted to mean that teachers could not touch
students at all. instead, they had to guide them to safety without touching them. now, because
of these, they can touch or grab a student if they for example run out of the classroom and into
the road. another education law we want to highlight, this requires school districts to come up
with a plan to address and prevent student suicide. it is named for addie stop. a transgender
teenager who died by suicide in 2017. her parents were part of the push to get this past.
something else we want to highlight; the classroom clears bill. this still has not passed. this
would require school districts to track every time a teacher has to do a classroom clear. that is
when all of the students are removed from the classroom and a student having an outburst
stays in the room. base has not passed, and we will keep an eye on this and continue to tell our
stories. back to you. >>> if it has a past, it is a bill in jeopardy now. if you have a story idea for
Kristin, give us a call. or send an email to kgw.com.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Jun 25 • 11:51 AM

B_JUN_WASH_52

A Kennewick woman who lost her son to suicide 6 months ago turning her grief and goodness
for others struggling with depression and mental illness Johnson and the Akerman Brown told
kate pr she's using the loss of a beloved son as a catalyst behind performing random acts of
kindness is bigger than any one person's child them are all responsible for each other's children
December 12th of last year Ackerman Browns Sam Kass took his own life he was only 19 gave
back everybody else in the process of that he kind of lost something taking care of himself and
that's what happened she says and alarming number Tri-Cities teens had died by suicide in her
mission is to connect with those grieving families so they can put a smile on their face and you
don't know what's right when you think you know them right when you think you're
comfortable that's when things can happen she started sending families flowers to let them
know they're not alone and then made a commemorative coin on that point for her son Cass
the inscription of Victor tree and hope for the feedback that we pre seat to do is give Litter
early this saving people's lives if they hold on to that as a means to remind them there is hope
and Brown says she is found friendship with a Florida mom on a similar mission honoring her
son's legacy was random acts of kindness that one and planning a trip across the country called
fall forward where she's driving an RV stopping just to meet people and performed those
random acts of kindness her last stop is planned to be in the Tri-Cities so she can meet Brown
they're connected by a deep grief only a mother could know.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Jun 25 • 4:36 PM

B_JUN_WASH_53

I want to introduce you to mary angela. this is who she is with us. she is on a mission to tackle
the stigma around talking about mental health struggles. here project is called faces of fortitude
and gives people a safe space to share their stories. >> this idea that we all need a safe space to
go too. it is not new. a lot of us are trying to figure out, we should not put anyone down for any
reason. we all need is a place to go where we felt loved, heard. when did you come to that
91

realization that you wanted to tackle suicide and folks who are affected by so aside suicide? >> I
lost my brother back in the day. I found years trying to find a place to talk about it. I would talk
to people and say, this happened to my brother. what you think about this topic? there were so
many whispers and people would say, I am so sorry about that. they couldn't even use the
word. in the social media age, I wanted to share my self- portrait so I took my own picture. I put
it up there with some words about what I had gone through and it exploded. it exploded.
people started sending me their stories and what had happened to them and I realized that
space was needed. >> it's like we look at social media, talk about this a lot, and everybody's life
seems so perfect and pretty. when you get deeper it's like our people are hurting just like me.
we need a place to talk about this. what you are talking about, you call it faces of fortitude. it's
an idea that you take pictures. >> you apply to be part of my project I have an application
process because it's gotten a little bit bigger than I could handle. so you can be touched by
suicide in any way. whether you have lost a loved one, maybe you attempted, and you have
gone to some counseling and you are on a better road and you have some hope, be you
struggle with mental illness, it is a conversation. it's about opening a conversation between two
people so we sit in the studio and I tell my story and they tell me there's. we share. there
something really amazing when you talk to people about grief and loss and trauma and when
you see how they are dealing with it versus how you are dealing with it you learn things. then I
take photos with a remote. >> you learn to be a photographer picks but I have learned how to
edit. I can call myself a professional photographer now. they barely notice it. it's on a tripod.
then the photos -- >> the photo gets your attention. it's the story that gets us thinking. some of
our local. you are now getting national attention talking on shows all over the country. one of
your newest additions, war robin Williams son. >> the host connected us and I was very
nervous. he said, I would love to learn about it. so I had a few glasses of wine and got the
courage to do it. he was lovely and a spitting image of his dad. for me it wasn't about who he
was and who his dad was. it was like, let's show it can be anyone. it can touch anyone. so we
had a lovely conversation in la. he wanted to tell me about his loss and the fact he had to grieve
with the world and it brought so many people to my project that were like, his death really hit
us. that is how a lot of people connected to suicide and who they think of immediately. >> just
looking on your social media website I can tell people are coming every single day. we could a
key word basis and we will get your texts and emails. I can see this going big. thank you so
much.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Jun 25 • 6:34 PM

B_JUN_OREG_93

Clark county deputies released the names of two men found dead in a Washington home on
Saturday. investigators believe it was a murder/suicide. the medical examiner says 84-year-old
vernon snider was shot multiple times inside his home on 419th street in amboy, and also
found dead at the scene, 56-year-old robert roland. the medical examiner said he shot himself.
deputies have not released a motive. fox 12 spoke with the neighbor who says roland lived
nearby and was known to be mentally unstable. that neighbor says snider who went by "skip"
was an incredibly kind person. >> skip was a prince of a man. don't get better than that. if
anybody need anything, he was the first guy there. he was a sweetheart. he was awesome. >>
92

we spoke with one of snider's sons today who said the family lost their father tragically and
asked for privacy during this difficult time.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 25 • 6:42 PM

B_JUN_OREG_94

Deb: this is new at 6:00, today would have been Anthony bourdain's 63rd birthday. in honor of
him two of the world's most prominent chefs declared today bourdain day and they're
encouraging everyone to toast him. take a pequeno which your and post it on social media with
the #bourdainday. the culinary institute of America also announced a scholarship in his honor.
he was a famous chef and traveler and the host of the show "parts unknown." he died of
suicide last year. >> stave: experts want to remind you; most mental health crises are
temporary and will pass. if you need help, you can always call the national lifeline. 1-800-273talk, or text "home" to 741741.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 25 • 9:04 PM

B_JUN_OREG_95

recent figures from the CDC suggested America’s suicide rate is the highest it's been since world
war two research also shows that education and open dialogue about mental health can save
lives what's causing this increase whose most affected by how have those difficult
conversations with someone who might be considering killing themselves and what do you do if
that someone you clearly this is a very tough subject and we will deal with it in a clinical but
candid way so if you want to listen to this later when you're ready you find this conversation in
its entirety online at the one 8.4 joining us here in Aspen or 3 guests who were in town to
discuss This very subject at the Aspen ideas festival Dr. Christine th is the chief medical officer
at the American Foundation for suicide Prevention the afternoon game walking away thank you
so much for having me also this is laura got bleep Psycho therapist a columnist for the Atlantic's
Dear therapist and the author of maybe he should talk to someone a therapist her therapist
and our lives revealed lorI thanks for making time for us thanks so much for having and Agnes
machine is the founder of just talk suicide Prevention as well thank you and thanks for having
this conversation before we dive and I wonder if we could just reality check what the objective
is that we're talking about with suicide Prevention are we talking about working toward a world
where there are zero suicides a world where a 100% of people are prepared to deal with
someone in crisis what's good what's the goal I would love to hear from all 3 of you starting
with you Dr routine what's the what's the objective float aspirational only a world without
suicide is absolutely something we can and aspiration only aim for the truth is is that like many
other leading causes of death that are complex health outcomes week we should aim for that
we should change the culture we should invest research so we know what works to prevent
suicide and she get everyone comfortable with what their role can be but it may be the case
that not every life Kennedy said it Laurie was your take on I agree with that I also think that
because there will be people who kill themselves that we need people to be her hair fool learn
we need the survivors to be prepared as well I think that we talk so much about preventing
suicide which is so important and at the same time we also need to help people who are living
93

with the fact that someone they love killed themselves they need to have some understanding
of how they can move forward him so not just hopefully the world 0 suicides and Prevention
also helping survivors those who survived by those who kill themselves and what would you
answer that I feel that when we start talking about it and on educating our selves and armed
becoming comfortable with the subject from then we'll start to see lives are being saved and
people being heels so we are looking at you know education and open conversations customers
here Let's back up to those statistics from the cdc that we mentioned is there any sense of why
this rate is going up do we know if there are actually more people killing themselves or just
better surveillance of suicides at what's behind the numbers wheel since 1999 thee suicide rate
in 9 States has increased 33% and surveillance is certainly getting better.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 26 • 9:12 PM

B_JUN_OREG_96

Laurie was your take on I agree with that I also think that because there will be people who kill
themselves that we need people to be her hair fool learn we need the survivors to be prepared
as well I think that we talk so much about preventing suicide which is so important and at the
same time we also need to help people who are living with the fact that someone they love
killed themselves they need to have some understanding of how they can move forward him so
not just hopefully the world 0 suicides and Prevention also helping survivors those who
survived by those who kill themselves and what would you answer that I feel that when we
start talking about it and on educating our selves and armed becoming comfortable with the
subject from then we'll start to see lives are being saved and people being heels so we are
looking at you know education and open conversations customers here Let's back up to those
statistics from the cdc that we mentioned is there any sense of why this rate is going up do we
know if there are actually more people killing themselves or just better surveillance of suicides
at what's behind the numbers wheel since 1999 thee suicide rate in 9 States has increased 33%
and surveillance is certainly getting better Thankfully as are CDC and in the death investigation
system is improving around this issue and really also a reflection of stigma going down so that
we can call it what it is more often but that increased some ability to detect and track suicide
probably is not unfortunate count account for the entirety of about 33% increase public action
Justice a smaller portion of it and so you know we think about the why it is a very complicated
question because for any individual who takes their life there are always a boom boom multiple
risk factors that have come together that of course includes changes in mental health but many
other things as well so what we're looking at a population increase similarly it's very
complicated topic we can think about things like the culture around whether we can talk to our
friends and family about how we're actually doing a culture of authenticity whether mental
health I’m is treated like any other aspect of health with no A stigma attached to it we look at
things like the opioid crisis with lethal means that is now infused in too many communities
across America so there are probably a number of factors up there around this this rise in rape
and the statistics doctor also kind of suggest that this increases affecting some populations
much more than others right that's right although the CDC report that just came out last week
which is not brand new data but a new analysis of the data actually shows us that for every
single demographic group from I’m looking at age group beings to race ethnicity to regional
94

me I’m around the United States every single group has increased that is something that is
somewhat new and it is true that some groups increased far more now will we talk about
increases in rates it is important to note that well no community is immune know people group
is immune from suffering and from suicide there are certain groups that traditionally historically
have had much lower baseline rates and therefore when the increases happened it's much
easier to show a doubling or tripling of that rate if the base late rates started very low so I mean
we can talk about some of the different demographic groups if that's of interest but I’ll just say
broadly I’m 70% approximately of all suicides each year are have occurred in White males 70%
of White males we do want to talk some more about those demographic groups but loretta
love to get your reaction to one of the many stories that came from listeners Jun in Charlotte
left this in our in-box my name is John I’m calling from charlotte North Carolina and having law
few close friends and 2015 to do what I am having spoken at both of their huge role one thing
I've learned is that suicide it doesn't have a template or mold my friend who lost in 2015 if he
was the life of the party an extrovert and Mike card then new took his own life in January 28th
he was an introvert and a very stoic alone a reclusive type guy and so I really do think it is a
problem that Tran and personality I much like depression and mental illness and that the walk
and we need to suicide it not limited to one type of person John thanks for sharing your
thoughts with us lorI what would you respond tone John's right fit in there are so many
misconceptions about quote unquote the kind of person who is going to commit suicide and so
many people who are in that much pain are internalizing their pain even if like John said
someone isn't a striver right they may not be sharing their pain and the reason that we really
want to have more conversation and open up the dialogue around suicide is because people
don't feel comfortable talking about the fact that they're struggling in this way and so that adds
to the isolation one big risk factors for suicide his isolation you could have a lot of people
surrounding you but if you're not talking about your struggle you're still going to feel extremely
alone extremely isolated and the pain is only going to increase said I do want to get more of
Agnes of your personal story about some of the savior for just one minute to make sure we
have enough time for you to tell the story fully but lorI we're with regards to talking about it
there's sometimes a reluctance to discuss it or have a Frank conversation about mental health
in general hartley out of fear that these conversations can plant ideas about self-harm in
someone's head I think I understand the argument I mean we had a number of conversations
about suicide Prevention and mental health on this program has had occurred to me to lie It all
we talked about this enough not enough too much what you think talking to somebody about
suicide is not going to plant the idea in their head if someone is a lot of pain they probably
thought about it and just being able to say Hey I see a lot of pain right see you your I noticed
these behaviors lately or if they say something you know like I don't nothing worth it anymore
no comments like that you can say as somebody O you know I wonder if you just mean like
today you're in a lot of pain or you actually thinking of hurting yourself and that gives that
person an opportunity to realize its normal tent they have sometimes have those feelings and
be if you are and what's not normal is to feel like you're always having those feelings and if you
are always having those feelings there's helping you can talk to someone about it I’m a
therapist and so when people talk to me in therapy about their pain sometimes I’m assessing
for suicide I will say to them are you thinking about hurting yourself that's not going to make
them all of a sudden want to kill themselves of their thinking about it now they get to talk
95

about it I want to get more into how have those conversations as we continue our conversation
with Psycho therapist and columnist Laurie got legal rights your therapist for the Atlantic this
machine founder of just talk suicide Prevention Dr. Christine Moody the chief medical officer of
the American Foundation for suicide Prevention I this I want to talk more with you in just a
moment about how you got involved with suicide Prevention and we'll get to more of your
questions and stories as well I’m Josh Johnson and you're listening to one day from W am you
and you asked plaintively p.m. from map supplement each I am I’m like dude and I had a box
like our erica good size and influence I have struggled to come to terms with how can one pair it
get to replace them with other hope but now even look training and understanding of the
running 5% to 5 and it definitely that showed tops anyone on Earth what you can be affected by
it I it's very keen listening to one pd tonight's conversation is around suicide rates are now at
their highest since world war two so we're asking what help is there and what can we do to
stop growing numbers are taking their own lives as much more from this conversation right
here on TV if you're someone who meets to speak to someone you can visit suicide Prevention
lifeline not work and a member of the National suicide Prevention lifeline is 102.3 8 to 5 5.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 26 • 9:17 PM

B_JUN_OREG_97

I’m josh with Johnson in Aspen colorado we're discussing suicide Prevention with Dr. Christine
Moody th of the American Foundation for suicide Prevention psychotherapist an offer lorI got
leave and Agnes machine of just talk suicide Prevention we love to hear from you share what
you know about suicide Prevention comment on our Facebook page or tweet us at one a.m. or
emailed one day after W am you dot org by the way if you or someone you know needs to
speak to someone here is the number for the National suicide Prevention lifeline I read it twice
800 choose 7.8 to 5 5 or you can call or text that number again it's 800 to 7.8 to 5 5 to 7 3 talk
you can also check with someone online at suicide Prevention lifeline dot org or if you just
Google suicide lifeline you get late to the online shaq and speaking we've waited very patiently I
want to get into your personal story as well you lost your 16 year-old son Harrison to suicide a
few years ago before we get into the backstory how are you doing today you know almost 4
years later I am still obviously working through my grief and 4 years into my healing process but
talking about suicide and meeting with people who have lost a loved one to suicide or struggle
with their own suicide ality or mental health issues or support someone who start goals on it
has helped me greatly in my healing process talks about harrison was like you know harrison
was a gentle soul he arm he felt things deeply and he was just a really neat kid was and they
can do you have any sense that he was struggling if you look back on his decision to take his life
do you look back and say that there was something going on that that kind of I was justified
explains why he did what he did you know if harrison I had had conversations and you know
when I have struggled with my mental health my life and struggle with my own suicide ality and
you know more I talk very openly with my children about life and life is hard and so harrison
and I have had a couple conversations looking back now I am I think that I had talk with him
openly trying to comfort him and my own struggle was suicide not realizing that he was hurting
himself you don't owe me any of these details fear uncomfortable it can be what if anything are
you comfortable telling us about your own struggle with suicide Alex he you know had the past
96

4 years I realized that the people who struggle come from so many different angle S and you
know there are folks out there who struggle their whole life and there are folks out there who
Run into what really hard times in life and they're just struggling to cope and suicide to their
own thoughts of suicide in their own thoughts taking her own life kind of stemmed from that
life situations that are going on and that's kind of where my struggle came from and so kind to
touch on what we were talking about earlier is the reason why we don't answer the question
why is because there's just so many different reasons and I don't want we don't want to leave
anybody out if anybody is out there hurting they need to know that they're not alone their
reasons are not excluded and they're not included they're just understandable and there's help
and there's hope I Bono to people stories are exactly the same I like how you fit this profile so
you're more likely it could be anything exactly that you founded just talk suicide Prevention one
year after you lost your son talk about the process from his death to your decision to balance
disorganization I imagine you had to do a lot of processing and decision-making before you
ready to say I’m gonna take action absolutely Yeah Ahh my mother and my sister and I year
almost a year after her son's loss of life my mother my sister and I attended and out of the
darkness walk which is held by the American Foundation for suicide Prevention and I it was the
first time I had been physically around others who have lost their loved one to suicide or who
were struggling suicide or supported people Google were struggling and it helped me
immensely and laid on the drive home you know my mom's sister Karen talking and we just said
we can do this this is something we need to do in our community and so I just we just started
planning and talking to people about addressing suicide on a community level what did you
learn from starting these calmer you're from or I guess what she learned from starting these
conversations in your community in Oregon in terms of but just what works and what doesn't
but just people reactions to even having a conversation it feels like the sort of thing that is so
taboo that Yeah one sure able to talk about it's almost a particle but talking about it is like
technology it there and analogy it happened you may know and you have to be ready to deal
with it as opposed to saying what is permitted as best I cannot talk about it what did you learn
about having these conversations a real kind of person the person why what I learned was that
nobody is untouched there was no old and no place I walked in to where I started to have a
conversation you know I’m starting an event to Morgan and prevent awareness of suicide
Prevention a wearer the person to whom I was speaking their life was not untouched so every
person there wasn't an immediate connection and hugs and thank you for doing this food I
can't wait to be involved I can't wait to be able to talk about why own pain and that's coming
from me this is coming from the people who I was talking to who was meeting everybody
Everybody's life was touched by suicide and we didn't know you just don't know you are
walking around thinking it's only yield it's only you hurting was in fact it's everybody every
single person is hurting they all have pain only am so it was it was just empowering there were
so many people that were being helped along the way I imagine you're also encountered some
folks in Laura I want to broaden the side a little more especially as relates to young people in
general I’m guessing Agnes that you encountered some folks who were still grappling with the
death of a loved one and kind of playing hindsight game was there anything I could have done
differently what if I missed a sign what if there's something you should have done should have
not done should have done differently what was that like you know all has far along as Ayanna
my healing process and as strong as it may seem standing or sitting here today talking with you
97

even now I still visit they don't and there are still many people in my community who are I am
in contact with but they don't come to the events they're not ready to share their stories
they're still hiding in their own emotions and in their own guilt a cameras go but Let's say that I
do say that it's that kind of ways them down from being able to just go to talk about it how did
it makes them but shamed it's a shame it is and that's where the stigma comes from it and why
I call just talk because when we just talk about it we're starting to help ourselves get past that
feeling of shame because really there is no reason for it on its it's not your fault you know you
you can't blame yourself today for what you didn't know yesterday will bring LorI Gottlieb and
Dr. Christine T back in the conversation Laurie as it relates to dealing with young people and
suicide would love to get your reaction to another voice mail from the list for a teacher here is
what Berry left in our in-box HI my name is Baring I’m calling from South hampton New York
high school teacher and iron Ore with kids spend know all the time that there are a lot of stress
high school or distrust coming days and what's really important I think is you listen to the kids
and the appalling I mean things seriously and he to inspect could be can be serious and one of
things I do enjoy we try to remind them what they have I am not so much what you don't have I
think once they feel like there's a person they care about them and his speed multimillion
honestly can make a huge difference there thanks very much for sharing your thoughts with us
lorI talk a bit about how we tailor these conversations to young people we heard from Agnes
the she spoke to Harrison about her own struggles with mental health and suicide ality Barry
said he tries to focus on what the kids have his Post and the perceived deficits in their lives
what effect I think these conversations need to start young anymore we see the difference
between you know how many men feel comfortable talking about what they're struggling with
versus women in my practice men will come in and say I never told anybody this before and
women will come in and say I never told anybody this before except my mother my sister my
best friend right so they might have one or two or 3 people that they can talk to if we start
talking to people beyond anything boys especially internalize that they might you might see
something in them it depression while % different lease will be like irritability and I don't mean
the way T Intend to be here above with just their parents but if your child is Irritable not just
with you but with coaches and teachers and friends that might be a sign of depression and that
might be something you can bring up with them I think that you know it's almost like suicide is
news Sachs in terms of what parents are so afraid of talking about if it's having a conversation
about Sachs is hard to do with their kids the idea of bringing up suicide creates so much anxiety
and parents because they don't know what to say how to do it but there's so many organic
opportunity is not one conversation it's a serious conversation about mental health and
checking and see how your kid is doing so they might be watching the show on TV and see
something about it and what a great opportunity instead of saying Oh Let's turn that off right to
say Oh you know what you think about this and not only we talk so much about talking to our
kids but listen make we want to hear what they have to say and what they think peaking shows
on TV we had a conversation not too long ago about the Netflix series 13 reasons why you can
find that conversation on our website go one aide dot org that's the word the number one
letter Hey dot org and Josh Johnson and you're listening to one day customers jim love your
reaction to list their as it relates to particularly help people especially younger people connect
on this one listener tweeted as a small-time broadcaster on twitch which is an online site for
video gamers for kind of sharing real time gaining as a small-time broadcaster on twitch is very
98

regularly encounter people on the edge crying out for help from random strangers me in my
mind's moderators on the site me in my mind always put up the suicide hotline numbers and let
them know they aren't alone and life has value even random Internet people document th I.A.
key hearing this from friends of mine especially for like a generation or two younger than me
that they can't fathom talking to somebody and in real human space about this but there are so
many places online where vote just to say everything Yeah we are definitely seeing that rising
conversation and willingness to disclose what's actually going on in your life in different ways so
certainly online that space where were that was already set up for being able to talk about a
whole lot of things without the same sort of consequences as in face-to-face but the beautiful
thing is that the younger generation is interested in this they don't have the same kind of
stigma Associated with talking about what's actually going on the internal and dialogue of our
minds and our I’m inside ourselves the integration between what we feel in turn only and
being able to have at least with one or two trusted people to be able to share that and work
that through that can be prevented in and of itself let alone if there's a diagnosable mental
health condition that could warn treatment I can imagine being a parent I am not a parent but I
imagine being a parent and finding out that my son my daughter my child has been talking to
some rain Endo online about potentially killing themselves and just be washed with shame
about the idea that I I D don't trust me enough for me to help save their life well I think to
anyone but certainly to the parent listeners out there put this in the frame of understanding
where your loved one where your child is more than what it means about us apparent win we
are feeling distressed hopeless desperate and ashamed are natural human instinct is to roll a
curl up and isolate and so that is not necessarily a reflection of the relationship with you dad
said we all can do much better at Opening up the dialogue just like Gloria is talking about at
every opportunity I would even say it is less about okay now we're having a conversation about
mental health this is a part of life this is who we are we're living breathing how are things going
for all of us in on a day-to-day basis so it's really a problem you know I think the twitch
community is amazing they really raise the topic of mental health has something to do with you
know the C suites interest in their door Corporation it's really kind of pervading our society I
know in a positive way I have to pause in just a minute by the way if you do use twitch you're
looking for resources about dealing with suicide Prevention you can go to help dot twitch dot
TV and types suicide in help box and resources should pop up for you before we pause Laurie
one more quick question from a listener Nancy email when I hear your guests say you can talk
to someone I think who and will cost 50 $ copay to talk to someone and thus be beyond that
person's means for pause lorI so you can talk to a lot of different people you can talk to people
that you trust your life about what you're going through so they have a support system around
you could come up with a plan and you can go to a clinic for low fee or no fee and they can help
you not only with resources but also getting therapy and find out what's going on and maybe
any medication maybe need talk there he and you can also call suicide Prevention line you
know who can also addressed to the right place I want to get back to that in just a minute as we
heard from a lot of you who've written in who say you tried the suicide Prevention lifeline and
had been put on hold for hours I want to get into that we come back.

99

B_JUN_OREG_98

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Jun 26 • 9:40 PM

Let's get to some more questions and comments from our listeners one listener emailed I’m
wary of the advice these feelings will pass I've lived with suicidal ideations since I was a kid 50
years later and even with lots of therapy and medication these feelings have not stopped is that
true a lot of people leave with suicidal thoughts and they don't pass and telling them they will
pass is not only misleading and alienating but can lead someone to put off treatment while they
wait for the feelings to pass I this I see you nodding that I absolutely agree and I was touching
on that earlier you know some people struggle with suicide ality and thoughts of suicide their
whole life ended his dismissive to say that this will pass this too shall pass them message of
hope there and it is if you're not alone there are millions of people who feel this way and just
talking about it helps find a local support group you know I facilitate aid us an S.O.S. support
group survivors of suicide support group in my local community and there's going to be more
and more of these types of supporters popping up as I feel people start to realize House
therapeutic it is to actually talk about what you're going through with people who are going
through the same experience so my advice is don't isolate talk about it and you know we arere
were tempted to seek out and that online support which is helpful and can be helpful but what
we really need is a connection real connection looking community and see if there are support
groups for survivors of suicide survivors of suicide loss survivors of suicide attempts and mental
health support groups and this you know can either be facilitated by a therapist Floor by
somebody who you know like myself who is just as been through this and understand how you
feel Yeah I appreciate that their feedback he gave about him saying in the past there's a there's
a YouTube her who does a channel called philosophy to his name as AlI and he did a video
about his own dealings with suicide alley and mental health and he said I hate to give away the
ending of this I’ll really sorry he said the one thing that he wishes someone had said to him was
I understand how you feel that one's saying he wishes some voters said if you have enough
clean next to spare you should search for this on YouTube it's a channel called philosophy to is
one of the most heartbreaking and necessary things I've ever watched online but that was
exactly what he said that's all he needed was for someone to validate where he was and not try
to pull him out of it but to say I see you let me get to voicemail from Melissa we asked if you've
dealt with something that made huge change the way you think about suicide Prevention
Here's what one listener left in our in-box I names Johana from using message yet I had a friend
to take her life a few years back I am mud so disappointing to me that the signs are pretty clear
I told her that the way she spoke what trumping who for them on her behalf but she is
concerned she uses certification for her job and could serve put me in a place to ultimately I
would rather have her here than and without certification gone but it was a weird place to be
and I think they really think someone not gonna do it I’m a lot of difficult T life where maybe
we don't see the signs I went flying so clear I just urge people to look at that and take action
have Johana appreciate you sharing your story with us but lorI I wonder what you would say to
people but Additionally from we discussed about the appropriate way to step in and support
100

that person I imagine it's easy if you think that someone will kill themselves to want to just outs
and dual won anything you can just kind of say no please don't do it just kind of also
overreacted away the can do more harm than good every situation is different I mean no Agnes
was talking about people who have suicidal ideation in kind of more chronic way and in those
cases it doesn't help them to try to talk them out of their feelings he had to say well look at the
bright side sure you know whatever you say that that doesn't feel that with even more alone in
what they're experiencing it helps to hear what they are experiencing other people there are
lots of people who are having like a situational stressor that feel so overwhelming to them with
safe and feel some shame around like with kids you know if I don't get into this college or I
don't get the grade. here's one narrow future that that you know awaits me and I don't get that
there's no reason to lift their situational right adults who knows something tragic horrible
happens in their lives they look I can't go around I don't know how to live with us there are
different kinds of situations in terms of how you talk to people but I think the important thing is
to understand where they are coming from and not make yourself more comfortable so many
people talking to them and taking know how can how can I feel like I’m going to stop them
from doing us and really what you need to do is get more information from that panicked about
you right you don't want to make it that you want to really understand what's going on for
them so we can figure out what is the appropriate way to help this person get help touch with
you we gave up the number for the National suicide Prevention lifeline of give them again in a
minute we heard from a number of blisters who said they had some real problems calling
lifeline granted the lifeline officials are not here to speak For themselves but he's got so many
comments we shouldn't we share one one listener emailed I've called the National suicide
Prevention lifeline 3 times in my life the first time they put me on hold for over an hour a year
later he called again and found talking to someone who was helpful two months after that I
called again and was met with harshly tone can I help you because of these experiences I don't
think I can ever call again I’m afraid I don't have a safety net if I ever feel that hopeless again
doctor well what I will say is that this is a real experience that the lifeline tracks their wait times
and they're their quality and in fact there have been studies that have followed up with callers
to find out what kind of impact it had an overall the overarching impact it's incredibly positive
the crisis system in our country is incredibly critically important but underfunded and I would
say that goes along with so many aspects of what we have yet to do as a nation which is to
invest in suicide Prevention add a commensurate level with its death toll and its entire swath of
suffering in terms of attendance a Haitian the impact on families schools workplaces so them
the one thing I will say is that there are there is one other national resource that's that is very
reliable called crisis tax line which youth tend to prefer texting anyway and so if you text the
word talk to 7 4 won 7.1 then did the the person will be able to dialogue the attacks with
trained counselor and done it is a system that is also terrific and and nationwide I’m sorry a big
part just what sort of correction text the word Homa to 7 4 won 7 4 won just one of them called
out its crisis text line dot org at his you know I would just like to add to that number one you
can text anything you can text anything about line and they were answering no because I think I
and number two I really like this for people who are willing to text and this is why because with
texting conversations you can look back on them you can look back on how you were hurting
and how you started to feel better and somebody else's House somebody help you to feel
better in him in a moment where maybe you can text can find time to text you're just feeling a
101

little down you have that conversation look back on I really liked texting and will thank you for
the clarification on that 7 4 won 7.1 by the way should she choose to call the National suicide
Prevention lifeline number again his 800th to 7 3 talk its 800 to 7 3 to 5 5 you can channel
online suicide Prevention lifeline dot org or school suicide lifeline also a few sitting House
someone on Facebook or Twitter who posts something concerning there's a functional where
you can flag-bearer comment not to block the morning get them in trouble but just to call out a
flag and say I think this person might be in trouble you can also go to Facebook.com /help or
Twitter.com /help and type suicide in the search into the comes up and send more resources as
well including ways to refer that user to resources Josh Johnson and you're listening to one day
Laurie Levy response Melissa who e-mailed I have a good friend it's fairly open with select
friends about a lifelong struggle with suicidal fought severe depression however they're scared
telling too many people or professional because they don't want to be essentially locked up in
order to prevent them from self-harm as someone who wants to support my friend I’m looking
for advice mostly on how to help and support them we got a voicemail from Melissa about one
system of involuntary commitment here's what Patricia S left in our in-box I treat Maple Florida
and The past 5 years I lost both my daughters to find their boat highly intelligent capable
people I think want to beat the biggest issues with preventing suicide is accessed
compassionate care they both had spoken of depression and to find and were both Baker acted
for doing now we hand it they clearly stated in their notes that they live up to the region they
chose them up and tomb and the Airlines the second time was so they would not end up and
they directly education can youth so I think compassionate care and affordable care for people
suffering is the most important thing you Patricia thank you very much for sharing your story I
am so sorry about the death of both of your daughters I’m glad you brought up the Baker Act
lawyer before I get to you Dr BTA can you talk a little bit more about some of these involuntary
commitment laws the big director of Florida law allows people with mental illnesses to be held
involuntarily for up to 72 hours judges 10 or law enforcement doctors mental health
professional but talk about these kinds of laws in general Dr. well every state has a version of it
and it's really meant to allow for aid behave brief period of time where an individual who may
be at risk of either suicide or if they're considered gravely disabled because of their psychiatric
condition meaning they can take care of themselves food clothing shelter or they're about to
harm someone else that's a time where they can be held involuntarily evaluated and then go
from there beyond the two or three-day period but what I will say in the suicide Prevention
world we feel strongly that that treatment should be compassionate should be at the least
restrictive measure possible we need to build those systems of care across communities many
are doing that so that there are other alternatives to either being hospitalized or sending them
home without anything that is not an appropriate system Lauren so many times parents will
hear something that their child said the teenager says about you want to kill myself and the
next thing the child those in need are and then locked up for 72 hours and they're humiliated
and then they will never again share their feelings that is it there done right and so I think it's
really important to understand what you mean when you say that and in now Let's think about
what we can do and make sure you stay with you you don't believe that that teenager alone
right but you know can you get that person to a mental health professional without going to
the E.R. and putting them a 72 hour hold what is the move that we're talking at least restrictive
way of handling this because people will not talk to you about it if they feel like they're going to
102

be treated in a way that is severe error it lacked compassion is an overreaction before we wrap
up I wonder in terms of what we've done we've got a number people asked about societal
factors one Lester tweeted about suicide rates with young black kids and whether restoration
should include mental health component one listener tweet about it in income inequality in the
impact there are a number of our listeners have suggested stronger gun laws would make a
difference because having a firearm nearby is a factor that correlates with people taking their
lives income and a moment of crisis.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Jun 25 • 10:33 PM

B_JUN_OREG_99

clark county deputies released the names of two men found debt in a Washington home on
Saturday. investigators say it was a murder suicide. the medical examiner says 84-year-old
vernon snyder was shot multiple times inside his home. also found dead at the scene 56-yearold robert roland. the medicaller and says roland shot himself. deputies have not released a
motive. fox 12 spoke way neighborhood there who said roland lived nearby and was known to
be mentally unstable. that neighbor adds snyder, who went by skip, was an incredibly kind
person. >> skip was a prince of a man. don't get better than that. if you needed anything, he
was the first guy there. he was a sweetheart. he was awesome. >> we spoke with one of need
snyder's sons today they say the family lost their father tragically and is now asking for privacy
during the difficult time.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Jun 26 • 7:24 AM

B_JUN_WASH_54

Social media was flooded yesterday with videos and messages from around the world here's
one from twitter user John Rizzo, I can't tell you which is meant to your house to our family to
or her life in traveling and call marI adventures in the video read selling his wife raise glasses of
wine they're toasting Anthony Bourdain the chef author and tv star who took his life last year
yesterday would have been his 63rd birthday and to celebrate his friends and fellow chefs Jose
andreas and prepared declared Bourdain day made a simple request followers take a video of
yourself raising a glass to Bourdain and shared on social media and boy did people rise to the
challenge as friends and fans paid tribute to talk but I think if you I choose love for all the
fabulous places, the food, the friendships that you brought us to I especially love for all the
differences leaving colors just to celebrate and tony I love you that was Christine Amanpour of
cnn and of course there was a lot of love from culinary professional like this group from repairs
restaurant Le Vernet Dan in New York messages from people inspired by Bourdain over the
years in a video posted to his twitter account tony kaba raise a glass to the chef I heard they tell
me this one's for you and thank you producers saw earlier and note to our listers as we closed if
you or someone you know maybe considering suicide please contact the national suicide
prevention lifeline there at 102 73 82 55.

103

FM News 101 KXL
Jun 26 • 3:35 PM

B_JUN_OREG_100

we talk about suicide have to admit to you isn't soros admit 5 dog in the fight that I have not
had anybody in mind media family commit suicide I’m not in favor of suicide I also opposed
and spoken out against doctor assisted suicide because I think that it's going exactly where a lot
of us thought it was going I have had my broadcast studios in Oregon in the first government on
the state that has the first gunman on planet earth that legalized assisted suicide assisted by
doctors of course they change the name a couple times try to make it sound more warm and
fuzzy effect the media seems to be trying to make as assisted suicide sound like a good thing it
doesn't square with a lot of other values we have in this society wesley smith joins me now is
an author and senior fellow at the discovery institute center on human exceptionalism us
welcome back hey I could talk you get a good to talk to you wrote for national review the media
has abandoned unequivocal opposition to suicide long ago you know most media organizations
i've worked for us reporter always had rules about even reporting on suicides for fear of
inspiring someone else to commit suicide note the don't know that there was any science
behind that we always thought if we go out and do a story on somebody who committed
suicide the reasons behind it we might actually incidentally inspires somebody else to commit
suicide we didn't want to do that so many suicides didn't get reported on back in the day these
days the media seems to love some of the stories they find the cory youngman a girl who's
suffering from a terminal illness and about all the great reasons for her to hasten her own and
you know this this is this is outrageous what are they doing these days yeah the media has
really become almost pros suicide group of up our journalists a leaf the mainstream media by
the way the world health organization has guidelines for the media about reporting on suicides
which they violate constantly particular with regard to assisted suicide for example enough
spoke to glorify the person who commits suicide love you brought up the bridge you made your
case stood up and leave out the beautiful woman who insults got brain cancer and became
beat vf face picture but you know the poster child poster woman of for assisted suicide when
she came out in favor of her you how many times have we seen a photo with them poppy and it
to the point that fear and declared heard be one of the extraordinary people of the year I
believe it was 2014 why become a she committed suicide and because she promoted assistant
to the side and every time the media reports on this issue they won't take a particular
perspective in fact often leave dave far they don't even include opposition voices and stories
back in the 90s for an mma when I first got into this issue and nearly 2000 I mean dollars on aug
I was on my mind I was in Los Angeles Times had a piece in the New York Times I mean the
opposition will be scared a voice starting about 2000 to 2003 that changed and now the media
basically treat mainstream media there are of course exceptions but the mainstream media
basically treats assisted suicide and euthanasia the way they did in the run-up to gay marriage
that is all for it they don't understand why anybody would be against it because all of their
stories from that perspective it is all a motion to the point they even celebrate suicide party's
better now being held with this huge front page New York times story for example about a
follower in Vancouver Canada who are helping I going away party just before he was lethally
injected and the New York times and had been 3000 words it was cam it was an unbelievable of
pushing a better agenda one effect you point out the get headlines like this as seniors go into
104

the twilight years some of them privately mall rational to decide that tell me about that phrase
rational to the side because that's become kind of go to the media when they're talking about
this subject i'd great rational for a site used to be called a majority view the mental health
professions that is that a psychiatrist job is not to I’m equivocal prevent suicide which is an
have been the majority opinion but that bds psychiatrist should if they fight cutters believes
that the suicide this virus based on rational we use them in other words if the psychiatrist
hinckley jr would want a diet to that's what they're really saying that the job is not to prevent
suicide but to help the suicidal person go to a rational decision-making process and even when
it determines been used to validate the suicide of a profound abandonment of suicidal people
there are a lot of people perhaps many listening in the audience today who want to kill
themselves and I didn't because of a dedicated mental health professional who was able to care
more about their line for make could in the dark for that moment and so you see here in this
big Washington post story or the Washington post presented rational side the way assisted
suicide used to be presented in the 90s in other words they were both voices could all be
emotion was torn allowing elderly people who are tired of black fur we're worried about future
ebola patient you know that this is just good rational way to check out well you can call yourself
antI suicide if it anymore if you support of legalizing assisted suicide you're pro and leave some
suicides and when you start moving away from be suppose a limitation of turmoil which is
bogus anyway but start moving toward rational to the side for the elderly now you're into
active suicide promotion one in fact when you think about that phrase but if I went to my
doctor and unhealthy these days but if I want my doctor he said while large got stage-four
pancreatic cancer survival rate is 2% or whatever the number is so you know rational person
probably just and right now before it gets that mean that seems to be a line of thinking that
forward that if you can imagine a psychiatrist is trying to help a mother or a father who lost a
child lost two children who says look my I feel like my life is over lost my children is that a
psychiatrist who say well a rational person would probably just and her own life because your
life is clearly and you lost two children the pain is immense and so just give you cash could yeah
right now why are we learning is that both parties had a what the rational better for the
rational suicide movement basically promote and in fact in the Netherlands which is gone
further down this road and we have the one other big cases involving the supreme court
allowing euthanasia for the mentally ill involved just such a case the woman whose two
children had died she wanted to be buried between them I psychiatrist I just did that process to
help maker dad gave 0 people gave relief for prescriptions she can kill herself and the supreme
court a benevolent said yeah that's right suffering and it doesn't matter whether it's a physical
or emotional and Ireland the Netherlands people with mental illness psychiatric illness we're
not talking super cool but like yeah you're gonna looking like cancer some of them actually go
to hospitals are euthanized and organs harvested that also happened in Belgium so that's
where this leads and people who pretend it's just this little ha little safety valve for when
nothing else can be done to alleviate suffering which is not in any laws by the way our poll
other because they're not paying any attention in fact in Oregon they just passed the bill I don't
know what kind of government yet but we do this is the waiting time for people from got some
people and actually permits active administration by doctors and other rich euthanasia in
particular cases somebody can adjust so all of those polls the guidelines and Oregon that we
were told we're going to protect against abuse we're just a way station to get people used to
105

the idea they can then move on further down the field toward deaf on-demand path toward
the head because logically how can you say odd that killing of an acceptable answer to
something suicide of an acceptable answer the suffering but say you're suffering doesn't count
for only one suffering cap.
KREM (CBS)
Jun 26 • 5:40 PM

B_JUN_WASH_55

an off-duty Chicago police officer is fighting for his life after being shot early today. five officers
have been killed by gunfire in recent days in Illinois, Wisconsin, Missouri, Texas, and California.
jeff pegues has more now on this spike of violence. >> reporter: the unnamed 25-year-old
officer is expected to survive, but superintendent eddie johnson decried the senseless violence.
>> the same gun violence that affects those living in our communities, affects us also. >>
reporter: in the last nine days, five officers across the country have been shot and killed. racine,
Wisconsin officer john hetland; corporal jose "speedy" espericueta of the mission, texas, police
department; near st. louis, officer Michael langsdorf; in Illinois, deputy troy chisum, and
Sacramento, California, officer tara o'sullivan. >> you're out of control, dude. (gunfire) >>
reporter: she was ambushed while responding to a domestic violence call. >> multiple shots
fired; multiple shots fired! >> officer down, officer down! >> reporter: despite the spate of
killings, officer fatalities are down 35% compared to the same time last year. >> we as a society
should be very, very concerned. >> reporter: still, retired police chief terry Cunningham says the
deaths take a toll on the entire police force. >> one of the issues that we need to deal with is
that cumulative effect of stress and trauma on officers. we're expecting officers to work longer
hours, answer more calls, and that just stacks up on them. it's a really difficult thing for an
officer to go through. >> reporter: police departments across the country have been struggling
to recruit and retain officers. also, officer suicides have been on the rise over the last three
years, to the point where officers are more likely to die by suicide than in the line of duty.
maurice. >> DuBois: jeff Pegues in Washington, thank you.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 27 • 10:12 PM

B_JUN_WASH_56

as we reported yesterday taking antidepressant this raises the risk of suicide according to a
study that was just released the experts last night warned that patients should be told of the
dangers before they start taking the pills the research from that depressed people on drugs
were more than twice as likely to attempt suicide as so more patients who were not taking
them suicide the United States up 33% for somebody who saw this a long time ago when I
wrote the book medication badness resident psychiatrist Dr Peter Bragg and so Peter this is all
basically backs up what you reported on years ago Oh Yeah actually gone back and thinking 94
with talking back Pros back I made a very definitive evaluation which showed that the adults
were line where you know more going to be suicide on these drugs and walk Ryan but the
reasons where one of them is that they can at times for really large number of people that
cocaine like fat please take a depressed person who's feeling desperate and lonely and
hopeless and then you'd catch can lump and he has a cocaine Mike reaction is over stimulated
106

become more aggressive than here to vote and he would commit suicide and frequently but
also violent I have very few a lot of cases my legal work of suicide and violence combined
separately I think this is a very good thing didn't happen and one of the good things is they
actually excited my research but a lot of times people are afraid to do it tight my research for
fear they won't get published because I've been talking about the stuff look good and while
longer than anybody in offending people longer any I eat can we get this point Peter mentioned
the brand names of these drugs should we got I think we can weaken the mention the brand
names of them I want to make sure we do that I get there kind of complete the complete list
and don't forget the capo okay but we have we have election grow in that we have full access
and we have pros track and we pack so we have with xanax being in that the word out that next
is the benzo that has 15 I am how Ben Jones are in this study know these so these are the new
rule no arm or hand like a pro career many of them are called NFL star rife with some of them
like he picks there's another one if not to mess with our life but if I’m becoming about twothirds of them in and just naming them why don't they just keep giving people Ben well the and
Sonos a very dangerous I can't say much about it right now because I’m in the middle of an
important I just came back 3 hours ago from texas has the flying about O a woman who became
addicted by her doctor on Xanax dope owns the truth I can't though you have to be very careful
about been other cases in which patients on that act of committing suicide book committed
violence the problem she do O these jobs and her passion and do you get unpredictable both
results and you clearly get ifn addition how much phil mudd alcohol the worst many ways on
that and how many americans are on Well right now I will beat won 25% of women of the tour
women Liu a huge it's huge it's absolutely huge it's huge and it's very important what the study
did because CFDA is they only and they only do I need he said they should provide the drug
company study we evaluated them the children and adult book page 20 or and they vowed to
increase suicide rate and then they did this despicable think they read the drug company uses
should be go around we all for all over 24 and nobody knew that I wrote a blog about it I’m
here to those nobody knew about this they assume that all of the re-evaluation for done by the
fbI maybe because the children were they would first want but when they went for the adults
they should value we let the drug companies re-evaluate through Sunday with them liars and
thieves so they came out the same me up I hope you come out with there are no problems
people did was they re-evaluated independently in the actual data from a dollar or two periods
with joy but only the beginning of the roof with these drugs keep checking into this force thanks
stock is on Pita bread and reacting to this story about a health alert Over Antigua presence the
study shows that there are rare in serious risks of suicide for patience on the pills.
KMVU (FOX)
Jun 26 • 11:26 PM

B_JUN_OREG_101

jesse: welcome back. a gunshot to the head. it is the heart-wrenching story of how the life of
cancer-stricken mother of four laurie connors was violently ended. now her husband kevin is
facing a murder charge for assisting his wife to end her suffering. it is a tragic story sure to
reunite the debate of whether assisted suicide can ever be justified even after a loving marriage
of 42 years. last year in the early morning hours of September 6th, connecticut police
responding to a 911 call found lorI connors that dead in her bed with a gunshot wound to her
107

head. lori's husband kevin connors told officers that he had been woken by the sound of a
gunshot, but after further questioning, he revealed his wife and her illness and feared that she
was now going to survive. he held the gun steady while she pulled the trigger. he claims he
could no longer bear to watch her suffer. officers found the gun on a pillow, and lorI was not
touching it and no gunshot residue was found on her fingers. in the closet, investigators found a
pair of sneakers with a visible color blood like substance on them. he had washed his hands and
changed issues. a year earlier, lorI was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and the disease spread to
her liver, kidneys, and abdomen. she suffered from lyme disease which made her
chemotherapy treatment excruciating. earlier in the summer, she tried to take her life by
overdosing on ambien and whiskey. but survive. according to reports, she left behind 13 suicide
letters in which he apologized to love ones. and claims she wanted to be with god. >> mr.
connors did what any loving husband would do. he is here today holding himself to be
accountable for his actions. >> nine months after his wife's death, he has turned himself into
state police. and posted $50,000 bail. if convicted, he faces up to ten years behind bars. in
joining us now is the host of oxygen's new series "injustice" with nancy grace. what impact will
lori's suicide have an previous suicide attempt have on the prosecutor's case against kevin?
does it help his defense? >> here's the thing. in your heart of hearts, morally it could help the
defense. lorI was really in pain and wanted to die. but under the law, that may not make a
difference. because if he pulled the trigger and killed his wife, even if it is a mercy killing, the
suicide notes won't matter under the law. if you get to a jury, it may end up in jury nullification
where they agree that she wanted to die and this was a mercy killing. but it is not going to stop
this trial. the fact that there were suicide notes. >> jesse: the state police crime squad and
investigated lori's death for nine months before arresting kevin. do you think that there could
be more to the story? >> absolutely, they have to look at not only the physical evidence, jesse,
but not only that, they had to investigate was there an ulterior motive? was he having an affair?
was there financial gain on his part if she died? did he have a nefarious reason to kill her? that
takes a lot of time. very significant. he was not charged with murder 1 prayed he is charged
with manslaughter. >> jesse: kevin conners is due back in court next week. thank you, nancy,
for bringing us the latest. and be sure to check out her new series "injustice with nancy grace"
premiering Saturday june 13th on oxygen.
KBNZ
Jun 27 • 6:25 AM

B_JUN_OREG_102

improvement after being shot in the head yand an off-duty police officer is showing signs of
died due to gunfire yesterday. five other officers recently wisconsin, in illinois, missouri, texas,
and california. jeff pegues has more on the rise in violence. >> reporter: the unnamed 25-yearold officer is expected to survive what superintendent eddie johnson decried as senseless vI >>
the same gun violence that olence. affects those living in our communities affects us also. >>
reporter: in the last nine days, five officers across the shot and country have been killed.cine,
wisconsin, officer ra john texas, hetland, in mission, jose "speedy" corporate espericueta. near
st. louis,g michael lan roy chus. . dorf. deputy tcramento, officer tara and in sa o'sullivan.o a
domestic she was ambushed while responding multiple shots fired, multiple shots fired.
violence call. >> multI down. >> despite the spate of killing, officer deaths are same time 35%
108

compared to the should be last year. >> we as a society very, very concerned. police chief terry
>> reporter: still, retired cunningham toll on says the deaths take the entire police force. >> one
of the things we have to look at is the human effects of officers.answer more calls. they're
expected to work longer hour, ice officer to go th that's a lot for a pol. >> reporter: police
departments have been struggling to get more officers and the suicide I tofor the last three the
risefficers are more years where o the line of duty. likely to die by suicide than ins, Washington.
jeff pegues, cbs news this morning.
KOHD (ABC)
Jun 27 • 7:39 AM

B_JUN_OREG_103

reporter: amy, good morning to you. jennifer dulos hasn't been seen or heard fen still rages in
court even though her husband's defense attorney rom in more than a month. now revealing a
stunning hypothesis that perhaps she was rance. responsible for her own disappearance
this morning the estranged Connecticut husband of missing c mom jennifer dulos breaking his
silence with a message for his five kids. >> I just want to tell my hat they're constantly children t
and I miss them very much. on my mind and that I love them >> reporter: fotis dulos ll speaking
outside of court, stithan a fighting for custody more month after hiropping a shocking wife
mysteriously vanished. now his lawyer d >> we are actively contemplating new theory. an
explanation for her a revenge suicide hypothesis as >> reporter: over the disappearance
weekend his lawyer pointing to accomplish jennifer's previous work as an ed writer on a claim is
500-page manuscript he"gone girl." similar to the 2012 best seller so your wife has no friends
here. >> is she kind of standoffish? ivy league? >> she's from New York. kind of rubs people the
wrong way? she' >> reporter: the book later s complicated. turned into a hit movie about a
woman in a troubled marriage faking her own dea frame her husband. jennifer's friend disgth in
order tousted by the comparison. >> she is not in any way the of person who would vanish. this
is not a woman sortwho would r ever, ever leave her children. >> reporter: jennife disappeared
on may 24th after dropping her kids off at school.victim of a serious physical authorities believe
she was the odstains in her garage. assault, discovering blo vicious divorce and custody battle.
the couple was locked in a jennifer claiming in 2017 court document he is dangerous; I am
terrified for my family's safety. threatening behavior. fotis dulos strongly denying any fotis and
his live-in girlfriend bail after pleading not guilty michelle troconis both out on to charges of
evidence tampering and hindering prosecution. >> according to arrest the warrants,
surveillance images depicted two people tossing suspected to be fotis and troconis, were
around hartford, cobags including a bloodstained sponge in a trash can fotis dulos and michelle
troconis havnnecticut.an attorney for troconis filed a motion in court e both been fitted with
gps tracking devices. to prohibit dulos from contacting her in any way. guys? let's bring in our
senior legal co >> all right, whit, thanks so much.k more about this. we know her body is not
rrespondent and former federal prosecutor sunny hostin to tal if it's never found, can -- and -has not been found.icide cannot be ruled out does sutegy the defense have a real stra here
with this latest theory? >> I think I you know, these nobody murders possible. cases are in the
united states history, e really, really difficult to try. there have only been 400 of those that have
gone to trial, not all successful. a friend of mine at the u.s. attorney's office has tried one
successfully and of those cases s consults with people trying to >> that's how difficult get
109

convictions in those cases. Are their own disappearance, that "gone girl" theo >> first the
lawyer claims jennifer staged hery and now claiming revenge suicide.re? what's the strategy
he's employing henk the strategy here is >> I thI right? trying to poison the jury pool, theories
out there you're trying to put your so that morning America," everyone that's watching
"goodonal interest. that's following -- this is a case of natihat happened. they're now trying to
piece together wnk that's what they're trying to do. so I thI >> other than murder? >> other
than murder. they're trying to throw everything at the icks. >> this is all connected to -- the wall
and figure out what sthearing is connected to ceedings that were divorce pro missing wife
under way with his five kids and the custody of the play. is there is at>> there is a chance and
that's the scary thing, actually a chance here the father could get custody? the question before
that court I think, for a lot of people. is in the best interests of is what generally the next person
the children? they don't have their mother now.father. that they would go to is their
grandmother. >> they're with their >> right now they're with their know he is at least the
person of interest in grandmother. wed probable her disappearance ano a judge is going to
murder and s or not they should go back to eigh very carefully whether him. harged with that
murder then who do they go to? but if her body is never found, if he is never c >> dulos'
generally they would go to him. motion to allow dulos to talk to attorney filed his girlfriend. >>
it tells me he wants what does that tell you? to speak evidence to her because the best e next
best evidence would is her body, is his wife's body, but tho was with him at the time? be some
sort of confession. wh he wants to speak to I think authorities think it was his girlfriend. her
attorney, though, now has her. from speaking to her. filed a motion prohibiting him >> would
that conversation be to her to get their stories straight. monitored? a third possibility he wants
to talk absolutely. that's >> speak with her. but the conversa why he wants to a smart
investigator is going to try to monitotion, they have these gps trackers, so a smart agent,
anything there.r that conversation to see if there's but I think a smart lawyer is saying, I don't
want lawyer, her at all him contacting my client at all, especially if she's an accessory to murder.
because she has a lot to lose here >> all right, thank you, sunny.
KREM (CBS)
Jun 27 • 8:35 AM

B_JUN_WASH_ 57

a recent survey by the trevor project reveals nearly one in five LGTBQ young people attempted
suicide in the last year. for more than two decade, the trevor project has worked to end this
long-running crisis. it offers emergency counseling by phone, text and chat. more than 200,000
calls and messages come in every year. that's a lot of people calling. amit paley is ceo and
director of the trevor fund and joins us at the table. good to see you. you released a survey to
put things in perspective and while there is progress to be made, there is progress made there
is still work to be done. what concerns you the most? >> the discrimination and the sense of
isolation that so many LGTBQ young people feel across the country. the survey you mentioned
that we just released found that 39% of LGTBQ youths seriously considered suicide in the past
year. and that is heart-breaking and unacceptable, in 2019, and it shows how much work we
have to do to make sure every young person feels loved and supported. >> and sometimes
you're on the phone answering when people call in. what are you hearing? what are they saying
to you? >> i've been a volunteer for eight years. and a lot of what we hear from young people is
110

this sense of fear of what will happen if they ever reveal to someone who they really are, and
who they really loved, and they're scared of coming out to their parents or in schools and so we
let them know there may be people in the community who will accept them. >> what advice do
you give parents who have kids in this position to help that? >> the most important thing is to
come from a place of love and we give a lot of advice on specifically how to respond but if you
come from a place of love, if you come from a place this is this is my child and I love them no
matter what and I will support them, it is very hard to go wrong. >> and on this point of a place
of love, when you look at the long-term trends from stonewall to now, it is definitely a story of
progress and increasing intolerance, but I was caught by surprise by the cover of usa which has
a study from glad and harris showing that young people are actually displaying less tolerance in
some respects. are we at risk here, 50 years from stonewall, of moving in the wrong direction?
>> there is a lot of progress but we are definitely at risk those rights are hard-fought and a
backslide in many regards and we have seen, since the presidential election in 2016, the day
after the 2016 presidential election, our call volume at the trevor project more than doubled in
a 24-hour period of time. when the president tweeted, the transgender people would be
banned from the military, we saw transand nonbinary youth reaching out in record numbers.
words matter. you can talk a lot about the policies. policies and laws protect people. but when
people in positions of power use hateful words, young people hear that, and it makes them feel
like they're less than or not deserving of love and respect. >> focus on 2019 people still feel
alone, because so many people have spoken out, publicly, and very proud of their orientation
and you said not everybody sees that message. >> not everyone sees that message. and we
have to remember there are young people across the country, if you're a young trans person in
rural north dakota you might see on tv there is a lot of acceptance but then you look around
your community and if you don't see any openly LGTBQ people, if your faith community is not
supporting you, if your school is not allowing you to use the rest room that corresponds with
your gender identity, you're going to feel like people won't accept you, and that can lead to
that sense of isolation. and feelings of wanting to kill yourself. >> conversion therapy is still
something in 2019. >> totally unacceptable. >> that surprised me. >> I think a lot of people
don't realize that. converse therapy, which is completely discredited practice of trying to force a
change in gender identity, it is still legal in 32 states in the country. we estimate there are more
than 700,000 people who have undergone conversion therapy in this country. and so, we are
working really hard, and we also know that when you undergo conversion therapy, it puts you
at much higher risk of suicide. we need to stop that in every state of the country. >> much work
to be done still with, despite all of the progress. thank you so much for being with us this
morning.
KDRV (ABC)
Jun 27 • 11:21 AM

B_JUN_OREG_104

suicide rates among young people reached a 20-year high in 2017. researchers call it a "very
real threat." in 2017, suicide rates among 15 to 24 year olds across the u.s. was at its highest
point since 2000... especially among young men between 15 and 19. in 2000, the rate of suicide
among teens 15 to 19 was eight per 100-thousand people. by 2017, the rate jumped to 17 per
100,000. an increase was also seen among 20 to 24-year-olds over the same time period. in
111

2000, the suicide rate was 12.5 per 100,000 people. by 2017, it was 17 out of 100,000. but
mental health experts say they aren't surprised by the surge. the chief psychologist for grady
hospital in Atlanta says a number of things contributed to the spike, including an increase in
anxiety and depression among young people. if you or someone you know is thinking about
suicide... you can find the number to the national suicide prevention call line on your screen.
you can also send a text to the text line.
KREM (CBS)
Jun 27 • 4:20 PM

B_JUN_WASH_58

a veteran and his service dog just finished their cross-country trip today. ken brock and pam
walked from florida to coeur d'alene. the veteran says he took the journey to raise awareness
for p-t-s-d. it was a five-month trip with many long nights and dangerous situations. but he
finally made it to his family. krem 2's shayna waltower was there for his arrival and brings us
more on what motivated his journey. shayna: what an exciting and warm welcome today. this
veteran walked more than 2,600 miles across the country. he says step by step, mile after mile
his mission was clear, and he knew he had to make it to his destination. brock six million, eight
hundred and twenty-six thousand and eighty to here." that's how many steps it took for this
veteran to make it to his family. "discovering the real down to earth, true americans." ken brock
has suffered from p-t-s-d for years. brock "I tried to commit suicide, numerous times." but he
says after one incident, he decided to do something not just for himself, but for others with the
same so he partnered with the wounded warriors program to raise money for p-t-s-d
education. brock "the wounded warriors are the ones that carried me through. doing it for
them, for the wounded warriors." as he traveled through the many states, brock dealt with
strong winds, severe storms....and an 18-wheeler that side-swiped him on the interstate. brock
"I was about ready to throw in the towel, and the only reason why I didn't was I was doing it for
a cause, and the cause was for the wounded warrior project and the wounded warriors
themselves." walking with his dog, pam, brock knew he couldn't quit. brock "i've gone through
seven pairs of shoes." he's had his phone stolen...and almost lost his tent in the wind. brock "I
had to stand there and hold it from the inside." but he never lost sight of his mission. and
today, after a nearly five-month trip...the pair is arriving in coeur d'alene, greeted with the
excited smiles of his family and friends. alexis morris "ken's daughter> "it's been this up and
down roller coaster, to be able to watch it, but the excitement and to be able to say that's my
dad. the milestone he's hit. it's just been one heck of a ride, and we're so proud of him." brock
finished the last mile of his trip escorted by the kootenaI county sheriff's office and the waves
of a proud community. during his trip, brock's supporters raised eight thousand dollars that will
go to the wounded warrior project. it was a journey he says he doesn't plan on making again.
but its message to veterans is one he'll always repeat. brock "ask for help. people love you,
they're there for you. we want to help." in coeur d'alene, shayna waltower, krem 2 news.

112

B_JUN_WASH_59

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Jun 27 • 6:40 PM

The parents of a murdered university of Utah student from pullman, Washington is now suing
the school for $56 million accusing it of failing to protect their daughter. the 21-year-old Lauren
McCluskey was shot and killed last year by a convicted sex offender. the two dated briefly, but
she ended it after finding out he lied about his name and age. she reached out to campus police
multiple times over the 12 days before her death. >> it just reinforced the idea that they were
not listening to her, they were trying to minimize her and have her go away. I feel like they
were not caring, they were not curious, they were not helpful. >> the suspect killed himself
several hours after the murder. the family says any money from the lawsuit will be placed in the
Lauren McCluskey foundation.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 27 • 6:46 PM

B_JUN_OREG_105

if you have been following our "kind is better" campaign, you likely know we've covered some
very tough stories with kids and families gravely impacted by depression, anxiety, and suicide.
Genevieve asked dr. rudd if kindness campaigns like these notes can actually help those deep
mental health struggles, and the doctor said yes, but the key is consistent support. make sure
the person is getting the help they need and continue to check in on them. but certainly,
kindness does not hurt. >>> that kind of support is always available through the national
lifeline. call them 24/7, 1-800-273-talk, or text "home" to 741741.
KHQ (NBC)
Jun 27 • 9:18 PM

B_JUN_WASH_60

than 26- hundred miles... 6-million steps... several pairs of shoes and a community coming
together. a florida to trek across veteran's mission the country to see his family and raise
awareness for p-t-s-d... came to a close tonight in coeur d'alene. k-h-q's adam mayer was there
at the finish line. nats of walking over two thousand, 600 miles... all leading up to this moment.
arek brock "you know I’m not an emotional person but when I saw him, I kind of felt like my
heart sink a little bit, just massive amounts of joy for him." a warm embrace... years in the
making for arek and ken brock. dad that's everybody it took ken three days from his time
crossing into idaho to get this point. but this was just the beginning. a caravan of kootenaI
county deputies, coeur d'alene and post falls officers, and idaho state police troopers led ken
down the home stretch. horn honking clapping and cheering to his finish line at cherry hill park.
where he would be mobbed by more family members, friends, and those he did not know. arek
brock "it wasn't his only mission to bring awareness, there's things that he wanted to
accomplish in my opinion too and I think he accomplished, not only for the wounded warrior
project, but as himself as a man." by the numbers, ken brock walked six million, eight hundred
and twenty six thousand steps, went through seven pairs of shoes, lost close to 50 pounds...
ken brock "I’ve got blue jeans in there now that are size 40 and they are baggy and falling off."
but he also raised over eight thousand dollars for the wounded warrior project... he credits his
113

dog, pam, for being the one who got him off the couch and helped him battle his own p-t-s-d.
ken brock "I’ve tried to commit suicide numerous times." ken brock "that's when I got my dog,
the last time and that's what got me motivated." for now... ken will enjoy time with his family.
then he plans to take an Amtrak train back to Florida, buy a car and live life. he has message for
those struggling. ken brock "take it from someone who's been there, ask for help."
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 27 • 11:15 PM

B_JUN_OREG_106

Tomorrow is the 50th anniversary of the start of the stonewall riots in New York. in the early
morning hours of June 28th, 1969, police raided the stonewall inn, a bar and a known safe
space for the LGBTQ community. at the time homosexuality was illegal in most states and
defined as a mental illness. many consider the riots a turning point in the gay rights movement
in America. >> all of these people in New York, we are doing this amazing thing for me. they
didn't know they were doing it for me. they were doing it for themselves and for everybody.
what they did made my life as I know it possible. >> Steve: the first pride parade was one year
after stonewalling and June was selected as LGBTQ pride month as a result. >> deb: LGBTQ
young people pondering suicide will likely turn away from it with the thought of one accepting
adult. it is base I had on -- based on a survey of 25,000 gay young people. they say suicide
among the cohorts could be cut with support. millions contemplate suicide each year. if you
have len -- have a LGBTQ person in life they should have the project's number. you can get the
information at the trevor project.org.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Jun 28 • 11:22 AM

B_JUN_WASH_61

today marks 50 years since the stonewall riots in New York which helped spark the LGTBQ
rights movement some of the biggest challenges today are for LGTBQ youth and one
organization devoted to helping them is the trevor project its executive director me paley joins
us now hI meet harry else doing well so let's first start with the positive here that all of the
things that have happened since stonewall for the better for LGTBQ people wore when you
think of some of the biggest hurdles that's a LGTBQ people have overcome since stonewall
there been a number of advances for LGTBQ people booth on the legal rights front as well as
the cultural front more Americans now say that they know someone who is LGTBQ than ever
before we see representations of LGTBQ people in the media and in in the political realm but
also a number of chances though on the legal front that gay and lesbian and bisexual people
have the right to marry someone of the same gender there have been changes in laws around
discrimination that have helped people on the state level in particular and so that their been
growing rights even as we know there's a lot of challenges and a lot of work left to do let's talk
about some of the challenges and especially the ones that your organization the trevor project
focuses on which is with LGTBQ youth and specifically suicidal that will tell us about the
problem personal but it LGTBQ young people are more than 4 times more likely to attempt
suicide and their peers we just did a national survey on LGTBQ youth mental health which
found that 39% of LGTBQ youth has seriously considered attempting suicide in the past 12
114

months and that that amount is even higher for transgender non-binary with and why do you
think that is there are a number of different reasons why that's the case but some of the
reasons are indeed the rejection and discrimination and hateful rhetoric that a lot of LGBTQ
young people face every day those in their commute you sometimes that's from their family or
and schools are there faith communities there's also a special in the top 4 years been increasing
he flew rhetoric happening from the highest levels of the u.s. government and political figures
that and of having a fact because words really do matter especially with young people let's
listen to one person one person named rain grayson who spoke recently about how the trevor
project helped when suicide was being considered I chose to reach out to the trevor project
through chat consider the phone because I couldn't stand the sound of my own voice I thought
hearing as my drive me straight off the yellow lab which when someone responded I didn't let
on that I was about to kill myself I told them that I felt alone I lobbed off fairly quickly but not
before I was told I wasn't alone which might sound like they say and you really do feel like
there's no one rain grayson is trans gender how do the issues of transgender youth differ from
those of lesbian gay bisexual well that there are even worse health outcomes for transgender
non-binary use that we see for gay lesbian and bisexual youth and part of that is because of the
still increased discrimination and hostilities and rejection the trans non-binary people face
every day there's a lot of people who do not understand what it means to be a non-binary what
does it mean to be non-binary so there are many people who do not identify as male or female
they might identify as either and sometimes both sometimes alternating between and just
some of the many types of identities that people under the trans con umbrella earth better
non-binary might use they might identify as non-binary they might identify as gender fluid
gender queer as deed gender the actual number of bleed bulls and descriptions that people are
using are very long almost infinite and shot in the recent survey that we did the young people
that we survey they had more than a 100 different types of gender identity is that they use to
describe themselves do you think that social media has been helpful or harmful for the LGTBQ
youth of this country it's been both people say things online blake your nomination you are
discussed in that I actually say things to another human being I actually said to them you should
go kill yourself because of who you are because her lesbian because you're trends but we also
can see there are a lot of positive effects as well for a lot of LGTBQ people you heard brand talk
about the such an eloquent way they feel very alone and so to be able to connect with
someone online and see I feel different and now this person I see online is trans and I now have
words and a role model and a person who is living their life in the way that I want to live it that
type of affirmation can be life-saving for so many LGTBQ youth you're dealing with individuals
who are getting in touch with Trevor project because they need help is there an overarching
solution to try to bring that number down of that amount of people who are considering suicide
or is it really just wanna one by one solution where you just have to deal with each individual
person and I think it is those parties that is making sure that they see a firming messages that
they get a sense that they should be proud of who they are there's also a lot we need to do to
stand up for the rights of all LGTBQ people a lot of rights taken away from them there are now
many places in the country where if you're a trans non-binary young person I’m you are not
allowed the school to use the restroom that corresponds with their gender identity that is
wrong that is an American that is unjust and we need to be fighting to stand up for the rights of
all young people especially LGTBQ youth who are most at risk that is me paley who is ceo and
115

executive director of the trevor project as an advocacy non-profit that supports LGTBQ youth
and me you say is what the world's largest we are the world's largest suicide prevention and
crisis intervention organization for LGTBQ youth.
KAYU (FOX)
Jun 28 • 10:22 PM

B_JUN_WASH_62

Tonight, a woman in New York is behind bars... accusing of a horrific crime. officers believe she
murdered her two daughters... and then tried to get police to kill her. police arrested 24-yearold tenia Campbell... when her mother called 9-1-1... and said her daughter was threatening to
kill herself and her twin 2- year-old girls. officers found Campbell in a park... with the girls still
strapped into their carseats. Campbell was yelling for police to shoot her... but through the
chaos... officers took her into custody... and tried to rescue her daughters... but both of them
were already dead. tonight, the medical examiner is doing autopsies to figure out how the girls
died. police say Campbell’s 4- year-old son was found safe at another home.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Jun 29 • 6:03 AM

B_JUN_WASH_63

the story of a lingering problem in the community 39% of LGBTQ young people say they are
seriously considered suicide for transgender people is above 50% they're worried about what is
going to happen if they come out and let people know who they are and who they allowed a
great Haley is CEO of the Trevor Project a suicide prevention and crisis group that did the survey
and among all 18 to 34 year-olds there are indications acceptance of LGBTQ people has actually
fallen the past few years progress is not necessarily always moving forward.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Jun 29 • 8:45 AM

B_JUN_OREG_107

welcome back. LGBTQ youth considers suicide will be more likely to turn away from it with one
powerful thing. the acceptance of even one adult. that's according to a new study by the trevor
project based on a survey of 25,000 gay young people. the finding shows suicide among young
LGBTQ people could be cut by 40% with more support. right now, nearly 2 million gay people
between the ages of 13 and 24 contemplate suicide in the u.s. each year. if you or somebody
you know is part of the LGBTQ community you should have the trevor project's information on
hand. the lifeline number is on your screen. you can also text start to 678678. all this
information is at the transferproject.org. >> we are trying to change the world with kindness. >>
we have seen them within our region and across the country. kindness campaigns. even here at
katu we have launched one. its kind is better. they are group efforts to lift the spirit, brighten
the mood but do they work? genevieve reaume dug into the science behind it. >> from inside
schools -- >> we want an awareness of collective kindness. >> to the sides of small-town roads.
it seems as if compassion campaigns are popping up everywhere. >> people being kind will lead
to a better world in general. >> the mission really universal. they certainly don't hurt.the
question is do they help? >> your mood, your heart, your health, it can help you with feeling
116

that sense of happiness and joy. >> in a simple answer ey. dr. lisa rudd apsychologist with the
providence, says there's scientific proof. >> kindness changing the chemicals in our body. >> it
does. >> she says it triggers oxytocin. >> that's that feel good cuddle hormone they talk about.
>> it gives you a sense of well-being, a warm, fuzzy feeling. or as these lake oswego women call
it, a sugar lump. >> it's the feeling in your heart when you do something kind for somebody
else. once you feel it it's contagious and you want to give more back. >> they have paired with
the city for a summer of wall streetness. 5,000 random acts of kindness. >> kindness is fun.
feels good. >> because kindness is contagious. a study found that giving generation a domino
effect in which one person's generosity spreads first to three people then to the nine people
that those three people interact with in the future. >> kindness weaves a wonderful web. the
thing is it doesn't have to be much. >> it doesn't cost any money to be kind. >> even a smile can
spark a fire. genevieve reaume, katu news. >> that's so sweet. psychologists say the key is
genuine kindness. if you're being nice just to be nice it doesn't trigger the same positive
biological response. we also asked if kindness campaigns can actually help those deep in a
mental health struggle facing issues like depression, anxiety and suicidal thoughts. dr. rudd says
yes but the key is consistent support. make sure the person is getting the help they need and
do continue to then check on them.
88.5 KNKX
Jun 29 • 11:29 AM

B_JUN_WASH_64

hello everybody thanks to be told to the said he would work modI he wouldn't come he did
come it's it did work nobody got killed two crew into operation nobody got injured it's because
of him because just kind of it is trial lasted about a year a year in which flattened kevin and
their teams testified before an international court along with forensic pathologist politicians an
anthropologist who come from all over the world creation survivors and family members of the
massacre her also told that story is we got the evidence together we presented evidence the
colts I meant it was just a case of food court decision you everybody u.s. taxes for everybody
but you talk monitor which was indicted for inhumane acts cool treatment and kevin glad and
the rest of their team we're confident he be found guilty that the court all that was left to do
wait for the verdict and it was for the first time be quick take holidays so everybody disappears
from the Hague everybody wanted to go somewhere I promise to my family I’ll take them to a
telephone call the days of a jump in the economy driving and from the Hague echoes the hopes
the telephone my mobile phone rings so I try to take it and I took it on the floor of the ca so I
said I biggest upside pull over phone the phone I see was planned cycle him back and ask my
foes but so many years because I expected that they announced the verdict and he says it
requires a debt facility what he's saying he said no he committed suicide I assume it is so yes or
no he killed himself their own award and he put into it on one side but also all the hopes of
those people that they've finally could see somebody responsible for a cold coming on their
loved ones and then his dad what glad my I did was because I wanted to see in a court of law it
would be a good punch finger at him and say you might have caught our eye your responsibility
was to protect people know this but he chose to feed them and allow them to be killed why is
the punishment but suicide not enough ask you need some fiction for closure floor the from his
with families who survived a they're very is I’ve heard since there's no shame on the family
117

because he was never convicted which sends all on our boots I guess for me it's whether or not
he committed suicide her if he went to jail for the family they're still in the same place sell
never know the not in the same place I’m advised by too many witnesses who said you'll never
get the public traces of this I know they would told you about from the trigger pullers tuned to
the highest levels and I said well you know we will get the other choices for this and you have to
sing about if somebody did something horrible to member of your family what you want you
want them to day do what you want them convicted of something really you're following that
one of its suicide letter Kevin’s teams that 14 people in the region has been with the prison for
war crimes.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Jun 30 • 7:50 AM

B_JUN_WASH_65

paley he's ceo of the trevor project that's the world's largest suicide prevention in crisis
intervention organization for LGBTQ youth 39% of LGBTQ young people and more than half of
transgender a non-binary you say may seriously considered suicide troubling numbers there are
troubling America heartbreaking and frankly 2019 in think many of us hope that we would not
be at the point where LGBTQ youth were facing discrimination isolation that would lead to
these numbers so for us it's important that people know that 50 years after the stonewall
uprising there's been a huge amount of progress but there's still so much more work to be done
you man the phones of that your organization and you've talked to people what are they saying
about the things they face but a lot of young people reach out to us are worried they're worried
about what is going to happen if they come out and let people know who they are and who
they love it might be worried about what that will look like from parents other members of
their family friends or people at school faith communities even their therapists and one young
people reach out to us here we don't lie down we tell them there maybe people in your life
who may not accept to for being who you are but we want you to know that there are many
many people in the world will not only accepting for being who you are but what celebrate you
for being here you are and I want you to know that I’m one of those people I’m proud of you
for being we you know this is in usa today the other day you might think young people are
more accepting of these days a lot of issues not just this but the survey found 45% in the 18 to
34 age range they were comfortable interacting with LGBTQ people last year that's down from
63% just a couple of years ago also what do you think that shift is going up yeah it was very
upsetting study and I think one of the things we have to recognize is that progress is not
necessarily I’m always moving forward there can be backsliding there can be people having
rights removed from them and we think we've seen that in the past few years after decades
and decades of it increasing acceptance and support and legal rights for LGBTQ people we have
seen in the past few years rights taken away that's particularly impacted a lot of trans gender
and non-binary young people but the trevor project we saw the day after the presidential
election in 2016 our call volume more than double from LGBTQ he's who were worried about
what was going on in the political climate and I think that that makes really clear to us that
words do matter policy and laws are important but when there's hateful rhetoric in the political
discourse in the broader culture that trickle down it has an effect on young people and talk
about the broad national reaction so often depends on where you live I mean in certain states
118

laws are difference people are different in how they deal with these issues that's absolutely
right and there are some rights that our federal national but I think a lot of people in the u.s.
don't realize there's still many states worth things that I think people thought were outlined
decades ago over centuries ago course illegal one of those is conversion therapy and for those
who don't know what that is it's t discredited and dangerous practice of trying to change
someone's sexual orientation or gender identity it is still legal today in 32 states in the country
so there is still a lot of work to do and a lot of states and communities where there are so
horrific practices and things being done to LGBTQ youth is a sudden your group direct people
who might be dealing with some of the thoughts of suicide or something like that to get to the
right place where they can get some support isser or get some people who can help amount we
do we provide a number of different types of support for LGBTQ so we run the only 24 7 phone
text and child services for LGBTQ youth so they can reach out to us if they want to pick up the
phone text chat however they want to get help there's a counselor there who's ready to
support them 24 hours a day 7 days a week we also refer people resources in their community
we run r some other programs online we run a program called trevor space which is the world's
largest safe space social networking site for LGBTQ youth and we advocate for LGBTQ youth
and conduct research to help change the broader culture it's the trevor project's meet paley
thanks thank you so much for having me.

119

