AM 860
Aug 1 • 4:00 AM

B_AUG_OREG_1

billionaire and accused sex traffickers Jeffrey Epstein won't go to trial before next some the
earliest to cast the bomb exploded steam didn't show any signs of injuries on his neck a few
days ago he either attempted suicide or was attacked while the Metropolitan detention facility
no additional information was given about that incident at Steans lawyers said they needed
time to go over a million pages of documents the evidence the judge ruled that the earliest trial
could begin would be June of 2020 gloria allred represents some of the victims in this case my
concern about the defense trying to drag this out no she urged other alleged victims to come
forward.
AM 860
Aug 1 • 5:26 AM

B_AUG_OREG_2

Do men express anxiety often through anger headache % alcohol use Andrea Peterson in the
Wall Street Journal a still did to this issue and joins us now Andrea rew what's the difference
between normal anxiety that we all have an app normal anxiety to wait for you than normal
human emotion and actually turn amount of it a good thing it can be a motivating force when it
can with make us motivated to prepare for a big presentation at work go to the doctor for
feeling awful but it is when it becomes the corner when it is so confident in the year that entire
life said interferes in our work and our relationships becomes an anxiety disorder. what are
some of the ways that men express anxiety and how does that differ from the way women do?
you fight we think of anxiety here I think the pick shirt off and you're someone who worries a
lot or who have waged saying that might be frightening for them like public speaking but one of
the technologies that are increasingly understanding is that men can express anxiety much
differently they're much more likely to complain and about should the coal and up like difficult
be sleeping or muscle aches and pains or headaches also more likely to choose so viewed drugs
and alcohol could deal with feelings of anxiety what may look like a drinking problem actually
can be an underlying anxiety disorder and often men response with and anxiety with anger and
irritability so I look like a loose Cannon that point like other could make could be anxious.
Andrea was scaring your stories know is that there is a strong link between anxiety and suicide,
talk about that. Right, about what a quick drink and anxiety disorders could be very afraid lying
can really get hurt here what a month what relationship they also can lead to increased risk of
substance abuse and depression and anxiety and depression often go hand in hand but what
the new research is really showing but there's a link between anxiety and suicide, and what’s
kind of surprising is that while depression is the mental illness but most strongly Associated
with the suicidal thoughts but often leads to suicidal acts like indict the owners actually are
more likely to a good side good final AP know and the minute probably know men are much
more likely if they're actually more than 3 times likely than women to die by suicide so there's a
1

real sort of kind of like forgotten we've got to attention and I told them. Andrea Peterson in the
Wall Street Journal I'm andrew along those same lines men are less likely to receive help and
treatment for such issues, young men are less likely to to reach up for help to get treatment for
mental health issues and you know the cause I talk to the often it because stigma in the room
the people are a lot of men have not won a flick comfortable have not been fighting cal lum
that it's not okay to be vulnerable or expression emotions I college but you need it you are the
fan out third partner or a loved one man who would you might be suffering from anxiety and
certain things you can do to make it more likely they'll be receptive to encouragement they
each that they get help one thing they don't deliver an ultimatum don't say no you get help or
Alpha is more likely to cut the power bone relationship actually can you then make some men
more with the offense to choose seeking help. one thing you can do it really you I like the way it
is a quality of life and improve for treatment they say they Theoretically get treatment we could
you could really enjoy life more, we can enjoy each other more. thanks Andrea, Andrea
Peterson of the wall Street Journal.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 1 • 8:00 AM

B_AUG_OREG_3

County sheriff's deputies say a man pointed a gun at them last night when they approached an
apartment in many hot neighborhood the two deputies responding to a disturbance call quickly
backed away they called for more officers the man who pointed the weapon and then went
back into his apartment bunch of cops swarmed the area after a short standoff the man put
down a loaded gun on the driveway he was arrested deputy say this 43 year-old appear to be
having a mental breakdown and suicidal.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 1 • 8:29 AM

B_AUG_OREG_4

the family of a woman shot and killed by her ex-boyfriend is suing the clackamas county
sheriff's office. and the gun dealer who helped the suspect get the gun deputies say david kotte
shot and killed. bethany shook and turned the gun on himself in March of last year. >>justin
coleman didn't play a direct role in the murder suicide but he did illegally transfer the gun used
in the crime to kotek. coleman was sentenced last month to 60 days in jail and 2 years’
probation.
AM 860
Aug 1 • 9:05 AM

B_AUG_OREG_5

some tense moments last night for Clark County deputies found themselves confronting a man
pointed a handgun at them the standoff was around 10 o'clock last night near 49th Street and
say John's right after pointing the gun at deputies the man went inside a house deputies called
for backup from Vancouver police mammoth against surrendered peacefully the sheriff's office
says it appears he was suicidal and how Having a mental health breakdown he was taken to the
hospital and is now on the Clark County jail.
2

B_AUG_WASH_1
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 1 • 3:00 PM
the top air force general wants to pause operations from one day to address the rising number
of suicides the air force has already lost 70 80 airmen to suicide this year general David
Goldberg said and is on track to end 2019 with more than 150 suicides He called on
commanders to find out why airman or going from hopeful to hopeless writing that suicide is an
adversary that is killing more of our airmen than any enemy on the planet. an air force
spokesperson said the feedback from the daylong pause will drive changes to programs if
necessary, and inform more effective ways to empower service leadership.

KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 1 • 4:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_2

air force units will stand down for one day in an effort to address the rising rates of suicide. the
air force has seen about 100 suicides a year in the past 5 years CBS military analyst major
Michael Lions says that days will focus on communication. I think what they'll do is make sure
people are aware that there's always help out there and to and to get a pause and if they need
to have help, they need to raise their hand.
News Radio KEX
Aug 1 • 6:41 PM

B_AUG_OREG_6

in 1975 researchers at Stanford invited a group of undergraduates to take part in a study about
suicide they were presented with pairs of suicide notes in each pair one note had been
composed by random individual the other by a person who had subsequently taken his own life
the students were then asked to distinguish between genuine notes and the fake ones some
students discovered they had a genius for the task at 25 pairs of notes they correctly identify
the real one 24 times others discovered they were hopeless they identify the real note in only
10 instances as is often the case with psychological studies the whole setup was put on will
have the notes were indeed genuine and that it obtained from the Los Angeles County
coroner's office the scorers were fictitious students who have been told they were almost
always right were on average no more discerning the those who have been told they were
mostly wrong in the second phase of the study the deception was revealed the students were
told the real part of the experiment was to gauge their responses tooth thinking they were right
or wrong this it turned out it was also a deception filing the students were asked to estimate
how many suicide note they had actually categorized correctly and how many they thought an
average student would get right at this point something curious happened students in high
score group said they thought they had in fact done quite well significantly better than the
average student even though as they had just been told they have zero ground for believing this
Conversely those who had been assigned to the low score groups said they thought they had
done significantly worse than the average student a conclusion that was equally unfounded
once formed the researchers observed dryly impressions are remarkably perseverance.

3

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 1 • 7:03 PM

B_AUG_WASH_3

the U.S. air Force's scheduled a one day stand down for later this summer to address rising
problem within the service suicides so far this year they've been 79 suicide involving airport
personnel CBS news military consultant Michael Lions, both the end of July the Sibanye suicide
that occurred in the air force was nearly as many as a lot here at about half the time so there's
something going on there with many general feels they've got to do something put a pause on
to make sure that there's awareness towards this. there were about 100 suicides per year in the
air force in each of the last 5 years.
KTVL (CBS)
Aug 1 • 8:35 PM

B_AUG_OREG_7

from the navy, we turn now to the air force dealing with a problem of its own-- an epidemic of
suicide. so far this year, there have been 30 more suicides among airmen than there were by
this time last year. david martin now on what the air force is doing about it. >> we lose more
airmen to suicide than any other single enemy. even more than combat. 78 of our brothers and
sisters have given up on life this year alone >> reporter: in an extraordinary video message,
chief master sergeant kaleth wright explained why the air force is ordering a first-ever suicide
stand-down. a day off from training to focus on an epidemic of young people, like airman
xinhua mesenburg, ua taking their own lives. "the stress life has given me finally broke my will
to live," he texted his parents, just before he shot himself last january. >> if we don't do
something, we could lose up to 150, 160 airmen in 2019. >> reporter: in the marines, 2018 was
the worst year ever. 77 suicides and 354 attempts. general robert neller, who recently retired
as commandant, wrote that in four years, he had lost 224 marines to suicide, and only four to
combat. he posted this message to facebook: >> so let us help. let us help each other.t >>
reporter: in his letter: neller speculated social media might have something to do with it, but he
walked away from his own use of social media, looking discouraged. what's happening in the
military is also happening in theen civilian world. suicide rates nationwide are up 31% since
2001. among young people, norah, they n are the second leading cause of death after
accidents. >> o'donnell: so alarming and deserves our attention. david martin from the
pentagon, thank you.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 1 • 8:57 PM

B_AUG_OREG_8

the air Force's facing a crisis of suicide in its ranks 79 service members killed themselves so far
this year CBS is David Martin has more 78 of our brothers sisters have given up on life the 0
homes have been an extraordinary video message Simi chief master sergeant came moved right
explain why the air force is ordering for staffers suicide standoff a day off from training to focus
4

on an epidemic of young people like chairman Shin law Mezan bird taking their own lives. “the
stress life has given me finally broke my will to live” he texted his parents just before he shot
himself last January.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
B_AUG_WASH_4
Aug 1 • 9:30 PM
Confronting the urgent problem of suicides in the air force and we don't do something we could
lose up to 115 160 ERA in 2019 we can't let it keep at it chief master sergeant calla the right
address servicemembers in a video CBS news military analyst Mike line says air force will pause
for a day to deal with the issues stick with filled through his make sure people are aware that
there's always help out their offensive and get a pause and if they need to have a healthy need
to raise their hand and flying into the ready to work CBS's David Martin says suicide is not just a
problem in the military what's happening in the military is also happening in the civilian world
suicide rates nationwide are up 31% since 2001 among young people they know the second
leading cause of death after accidents.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 1 • 9:41 PM

B_AUG_OREG_9

steve: an annual corn maze at a wisconsin farm is getting a lot of attention for its life saving
potential. jewel and john own the 11 acres of corn, but after losing a family member to suicide
six months ago they decided to use their corn maze for good. they mowed the words "your life
matters" and the number for the suicide prevention hotline into the corn field. they were
worried the message would be a downer for people coming to the corn maze, but decided it
was worth the risk. >> deb: we have that number for you, it's a good thing to have on hand. it's
800-273-talk. the national lifeline staffs the hotline 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 1 • 9:59 PM

B_AUG_WASH_5

suicide is the biggest single enemy of the air force which plans to stand down for a day to
address the crisis CBS's jeff a cause air force being very concerned that by the end of July 79
airman had committed suicide the which put somewhere ahead what car occurred in 2018
where is the total that particular year was only one of 100.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 1 • 11:01 PM

B_AUG_WASH_6

the air force will stand down for one day in an effort to address suicide in its ranks it's seen
about 100 suicides year in recent years CBS's David Barton says it's nothing only branch of the
military dealing with the issue in the Marines 2018 was the worst year ever 77 suicides and 354
of tampa's general Robert Bauer who recently retired as a common not wrote that in 4 years he
lost 220 former Marines to suicide and only for the combat but they posted this message to
Facebook for a lot less help each other in his letter know our speculated social media might
5

have something to do with it but he walked away from his own use of social media looking
discouraged.
KMVU (FOX)
Aug 2 • 1:10 AM

B_AUG_OREG_10

police in montana positively identifying the body of a medford boy found three states away. the
lincoln county sheriff in montana confirms that they did find 2 year old aiden salcido's body at a
camp in their state. the boys mother and father were charged in an upcoming case, here, in
jackson county... but didn't show up. aiden, his mother hannah yaniak and father daniel salcido
lived mostly along the bear creek greenway... but medford police say their family first reported
them missing. the parents were ultimately spotted in montana and following a vehicle pursuit...
they were both discovered dead from an apparent murder suicide. aiden was not in the vehicle.
the body of the child was discovered following tips from community members in the west fisher
creek area of montana. the sheriff there says aiden also died from a gunshot wound. tonight as
we continue our exclusive report, on the bear creak greenway.... we've discussed costs, fire
efforts, and abuse of the trail... but tonight a different perspective.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 2 • 2:03 AM

B_AUG_OREG_11

30 minutes ago, the multnomah county sheriff sheriff's office said a body that washed up is that
of a swimmer who went missing last week. the man went underwear -- went underwater and
they are waiting to release his name until his family is notified. the tribal doesn't end there. a
20-year-old dove into the clack -- clackamas river and never came up. the man sunk 30 feet and
was unresponsive. lifeguards pulled him to the surface and performed cpr. he was not wearing
a life jacket. >> these tragic events highlights the importance of wearing life jackets in any
water with a current or any hazards which this river certainly does. >> on tuesday an eight-yearold boy drowned. gresh -- gresham fire says he was not wearing one either despite free ones
available. >>> a body found is a missing boy. his parents were in an apparent murder-suicide
last week. they died after police tried to pull them over because they had felony burglary
warrants for their arrests. the boy was not with them prompting the search. authorities
received tips their car was spotted near a campground and that's where the boy's body was
found, and he was shot in the head.
KDRV (ABC)
Aug 2 • 2:05 AM

B_AUG_OREG_12

the missing child of the medford couple that were found dead of murder suicide. in the last 2
hours- police have confirmed the toddler found in the woods is 2-year- old aiden salcido. his
parent were daniel salcido and hannah janiak. they were found dead of apparent murder
suicide in Montana. police found their bodies but aiden was not with them. police his body was
found days later in an area where his parents were seen in the days prior. an autopsy shows
aiden was shot in the head. police are still investigating.
6

KXLY (ABC)
Aug 2 • 2:16 AM

B_AUG_WASH_7

it's a corn maze with a cause... and the overall message: your life maters.the wisconsin maze
has had diffeerent designs over the years, but this year, the owners decided to focus on suicide
prevention to mark the upcoming fall season.the maze also includes the national suicide hotline
number, which is 1-800-273-talk or 1-800- 273-8255.the owners of the maze recently lost a
family member to suicide... so it's an especially personal message to them.
AM 860
Aug 2 • 4:00 AM

B_AUG_OREG_13

the top air force general has ordered commanders to address the rising number of suicides
chief of staff of the Air Force says those services lost 78 airmen to suicide this year Journal
David gold things says that could mean more than 150 by the end of the year after a 6 year high
of over 100 last year he's directing leaders to take a daylong operational pause to address
suicides the air force also providing a video to help frame the conversation about decision body
one B differe to check a box chief master sergeant gave it right we have to witnessed any time
around turn gold rings says units have a 45 day window to take a pause.
AM 860
Aug 2 • 8:20 AM

B_AUG_OREG_14

the 22 year-old granddaughter of Robert F Kennedy died at the family compound in hyannis
port massachusetts this morning my gap and has details searching Kennedy Hill was the
daughter of Courtney Kennedy held a 5th of 11 children born to the late new York senator and
wife Ethel she attended Boston College where she was a member of the class of 2020 the family
said in a statement our hearts are shattered by the loss of our beloved searchefor her life was
filled with hope promise to love she cared deeply about friends and family especially other
courtney her father Paul her stepmother stephanie and her grandmother Ethel this statement
quote F Kennedy is saying the world is a little less beautiful today paramedics were Responded
to a medical call around two 30 yesterday afternoon and was taken to Cape Cod hospital in
unknown condition law enforcement sources say Hill died from suspected drug overdose Jan
thanks Mike in 2016 opinion piece for the student newspaper Hill wrote about her bouts with
depression she also said someone she knew and loved Brooks serious sexual boundaries with
her leading her to attempt suicide.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 2 • 6:11 AM

B_AUG_WASH_8

Jonathan Mockus the ground door to the assassinate td us presidential candidates robert
Kennedy has died in massachusetts Seoul shock Kennedy Hill was 22 and local media reports
7

say she died overnight the days since the nicest not lone lion of tragedies the Kennedy family
has experienced Adam past Niki as a whole the lights his premature death to affect Kennedy
found late breathlessly reported a U.S. media investigators say she was alone when it happens
the family just released a statement about the death of a 22 year-old emergency services were
cold at the Kennedy compound in massachusetts but socia Kennedy hail was pronounced dead
at Cape called hospit so the 22 year-old sitting communications of Boston College she had
written extensively about suicide attempt and her struggle with depression and student use
pipe the world sees little less beautiful today the family shares those were the words of a
grieving F Kennedy on the death of Gray and honor the Kennedy family has experienced trauma
before all some people say that's normal for a family of its extended size of this cold it a cuss
the misfortune is gold should be done in 19 full she won't when a system of John and Robert
Kennedy was pounded the incapacitated and left unable to speak after the ultimate rosary
candidate needed cash for the remaining 63 years of her life another sibling Joseph Kennedy
junior died on a secret as full mission in the second Weld wall and then 3 months after a child
been stillborn U.S. President John F Kennedy was killed in 1963 from val back made by have
apparently official President Kennedy died at one p.m. central standard time two o'clock
eastern standard time some 38 minutes ago the shooting of his brother and socia grandfather
Robert Kennedy was cool on TV in 1968 as a pawn of the coverage of his presidential bid
another brother had to drive his car off the road in Chappaquiddick in Massachusetts following
Yeah well erica opinion into radical died he wondered aloud that if the £ was costs and have
been for the misfortunes and control of isis since then including the death of John F Kennedy
and 19 _ninety_ _nine_ plane crash socia Kennedy Hills tragic tale is the latest chapter of
misfortune for the Kennedy family the statement from them after her death Hawks are shocked
by the loss of up another solo shot life was filled with hate promise I love I them past Niki.
KOBI
Aug 2 • 9:32 AM

B_AUG_OREG_15

following up... we have a sad update this morning on the missing two-year-old from medford.
police in montana can confirm that the body found last week... is 'aiden salcido'. the lincoln
county sheriff in montana confirmed that news thursday... the boy's parents were charged in an
upcoming case here in jackson county... but didn't show up. his mother --hannah yaniak and
father -- daniel salcido lived mostly along the bear creek greenway... the parents were spotted
in Montana... and after a car chase... they were found dead from an apparent murder suicide.
aiden was not in the car... which started a multi-state search for the boy. the body of the child
was found in the "west fisher creek area" of Montana. the sheriff says aiden also died from a
gunshot wound.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 2 • 6:59 AM

B_AUG_OREG_16

Reporter: emergency vehicles swarming the scene in hyannisport, the family's long-time
summer home. saoirse was the only child of ethel and robert's daughter courtney and paul
michael hill she struggled with mental illness. in 2016, kennedy hill, a high school student at
8

deerfield academy, opening up in her school's newspaper about her depression though i was
mostly a happy child, i suffered bouts of deep sadness that felt like a heavy boulder on my
chest. revealing she once tried to commit suicide after enduring significant trauma i totally lost
it after someone i knew and loved broke serious sexual boundaries with me, she wrote. i did
the worst thing a victim could do, and i pretended it hadn't happened. this became too much,
and i attempted to take my own life. ending the piece with optimism writing, we are all either
struggling or know someone who is battling an illness let's come together to make our
community more inclusive and comfortable. just last month, kerry kennedy taking to instagram,
sharing the annual family photo taken ohat the compound, as hundreds of smiling faces
celebrated the fourth of july now, the family will gather again to mourn a life ended too soon.
>> so sad. now, i mean, what's happened to the investigation? who is leading that? >> reporter:
now, the investigation is taken over by local and state police and the district attorney here they
will be looking into the circumstances of saoirse's death, and to make sure no crime was
committed in her death savannah >> all right our hearts are with the family of course. anne,
thank you.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 2 • 6:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_17

deb: the air force is taking drastic measures to combat a sharp spike in airman suicides. the
general has ordered commanders to stop working for one day to address the mental health
needs of airmen. already this year, 78 airmen have died by suicide. that's compared to 103 all
of last year. general david goldfein the chief of staff at the air importance says suicide is killing
more airmen than any enemy on the planet. the day off is designed to give airmeno connect
and break down barriers to get help. the air force is still deciding when that day will be. >>> the
military crisis line is available 24/7 to anyone who serves and their family and friends. call 1800-273-talk, then press one, or access online chat by texting 838255.
KOBI
Aug 2 • 6:47 PM

B_AUG_OREG_18

Welcome back. we are pleased to be joined once again by chief kris allison of the central point
police department. again chief, thanks so much for being here.its really a pleasure to have you
partner with us on this campaign that were starting called in this together . again, that is what
were kicking off to compact the suicide problem that really is a problem in our community.
from your perspective, are you seeing an increase in calls about this? allison: yes, we are.so not
only are we seeing an increase in the events were seeing an increase in our mental health calls;
which again, can be those indicators for something like this tragically to happen.so yes and i
think thats why it’s so important that were a part of this campaign. talking about it really is one
of the first steps in just getting that awareness. allison: absolutely. we want to be the ones to
start the conversation and it’s difficult to have these conversations which individuals, especially
people that you love.but, we want to make sure that were having them so that were keeping
them safe. does there appear to be a catalyst such as drugs or other factors that seem to point
to common pressure points of high risk behavior? allison: i think that there is a lot of different
9

points of high risk behavior, all of those can be one of them.a lot of times its a difference in the
personality, a life event change, whether its drugs, alcohol or just depression, mental health;
theres so many different things that can be the catalyst or there can be no indicators at all.so
thats why i think its imperative that you have family members who are tuned in who may be
able to catch that more than what we could. and what would you tell someone watching who
may know of someone at risk about what they can do to help, or what kind of help is available?
allison: so, theres a lot of different resources.theres the ones that i think most of us know but
theres also a piece of just being with them, noticing not to sweep it under the rug and not think
that this isnt something that could be a possibility that they’re thinking because if you’re talking
about it, or if they’re talking about it, it could be an issue with them and not to ignore it. of
course.and chief, also, we just want to thank you again for being a partner with us on this.if
there is anyone watching at home, we just want to remind you that there is help available and
so if you are struggling, you can call the national suicide prevention life line, you can also text
741741.
AM 860
Aug 2 • 9:39 PM

B_AUG_OREG_19

all we know one link between social media and teenage depression suicide even becoming aws
have enforce laws or minimum age of social media use thanks I love your thoughts especially in
the weaponization media by sexual predators to one two gram miners are tight miners it's an
interesting question I really do think this is more parental question then it is a governmental
question but they're addicted aspects of social media and the notion that a kid who is 12 13
should be on social media if the parents are not doing what they're supposed to be doing age it
really is I honestly have considered enough I want to consider them more it is something I'm
open to because again the protection of children is one of the roles of government because it
can take care of themselves and parents are simply plopping their kids in front of the TV 12
hours a day and not send them to school for truancy laws if parents I allowing kids to take a
manager's social media in such a way that is endangering to them then you I T argument and
CNN as you know I'm loathed to embrace government regulation in nearly any area of
American life but I can see the I admit I can see the argument here we'll be back in just a
second.
KNDO (NBC)
Aug 3 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_9

new information tonight. a california coroner reveals the gunman at the gilroy garlic festival
committed suicide. investigators say the 19-year old shooter did not die at the hands of police
officers during his shootinst took his man managed to sneak his ak-47 rifle into the festival...
later using that same weapon to commit suicide. officials say they are surprised by the
coroner's report. it appears now that ruling on the cause and manner of death, that once he
was down, that he was able to get a round off and shot himself "in my mind it changes nothing.
The officers still got there fast, they engaged him fast in furious fire and they eliminated the

10

threat a six-year-old boy, a 13-year-old girl and a were e gilroy garlic festival in northern
california last Sunday.
KEPR (CBS)
Aug 3 • 6:10 PM

B_AUG_WASH_10

Reporter: mourners arrived at k the kennedy compound late today to pay their respects to the
kennedy family. according to a community officer, calling hours were from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00
p.m. and security was tight. thursday, police received a report of an overdose at the compound
and found 22-year-old saoirse kennedy hill unresponsive. the family's cape cod compound,
which is just onshore, is where they spend holidays and summer vacations. saoirse was on
summer break when she was at the compound. that's where her grandmother, ethel, lives, the
surviving wife of bobby kennedy. hill was the daughter of bobby and ethel kennedy's fifth child
courtney. the family sailed in the boat th "the glide" the day before saoirse's death. this was
saoirse just last week. her uncle, r.f.k., jr., said sheai had a gift of laughter. maria shriver called
her brave. and her aunt kerry kennedy commended saoirse's devotion to "human rights and
women's empowerment." in high school, she created a student group to fight against sexual
assault. and in the school paper, she wrote about her own sexual assault, her struggles with
depression, and attempted suicide. "i did the worst thing a victim can do, and i pretended it
hadn't happened," she wrote. "this all became too much, and i attempted to take my own life."
she also condemned the stigma of mental illness: "just beca illness may not be outwardly
visible, doesn't mean the person suffering from it isn't struggling." kennedy hill was going to be
a senior at boston college. when she was in high school, she actually took medical leave to treat
her depression, somethingsaid she said she would struggle with the rest of her life. jericka. >>
duncan: adriana, such a heartbreaking story when you think about how public she was about
her own struggles with depression. what's the latest with the investigation into her death? >>
reporter: well, jericka, her autopsy found no bodily injuries, so we are waiting forti that
toxicology report for confirmation about a possible overdose.si >> duncan: all right, adriana diaz
for us. thank you very much.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 4 • 6:40 PM

B_AUG_WASH_11

User L leads people to suicide we had no idea what the heck this is was talking about when
these folks first started showing up and guests are invited user Al All into discord chat so we
could get to the bottom of this user else and something he read on different Reddit forum years
ago a short eulogy for a woman he met online they become friends running very fringe
community where she shared videos of quote unquote Xscape testimonials which stories of
Christians who claimed that through conversion therapy or an alleged act of faith defeated
these troublesome feelings she Hey it's a buyout being emotional week cure and I hate to see
emotion all investments with women don't we that's my starting to cross the line in my heart
that based on what I found her old Reddit posts user else friend was open about suffering from
bipolar disorder and pains that God was judging her for her attraction to women things got
11

worse when she divorced her husband and she Unfortunately committed suicide several years
ago and when he saw the news he was noticeably shocked he and Dr. grant Hill while and we
really don't know much about to be on that however the some lgbtq supporting users noticed
that since said while your philosophy drove this woman to suicide with whether or not that's
true will likely never know what we do know is that study after study has shown that not only
does conversion therapy not work it's deeply harmful to those who receive it lgbtq adolescence
that experience conversion therapy or rejection from their families and faith communities are 8
times more likely to attempt suicide than those from accepting environment.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 5 • 11:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_20

Tonight we have a profound past no tragedy not talking serious criticism of the BBC the foreign
affairs select committee the Ministry of defense and the government as a whole the official
explanation was dubbed the caddie to liberate he took his own life but such is the master of
public debate at the time so divided as a nation and the war in iraq that his sudden death spot
any number of conspiracy famies while up to caddie with debt accepted it the suicide of as
we're concerned that normal procedure is following the sudden death Linux followed by Neil
sorry teeth among what it takes what a group of magical adult to this I have a full time to his
mind so curious mind fear uncertainty the unusual nature A team party and one questions and
really the question is did he commit suicide Jones is a consultant vascular Sajjan he was one of a
number of prominent medical doctors and scientists that in 2009 signed an open necked for
saying that they had multiple serious concerns about the medical and forensic evidence used to
conclude that up to kelly killed himself and injury to go to katty on is thought to have
contributed to his death that adult is questioned whether that was 90 the statement by adults
can this time the indicates that they expected the Fed to suicide but a group of medical and
legal experts is challenging the finding no because they should note Kelly couldn't take the
same knife that because they believe it couldn't possibly have happened in the way it's insane
that confence has helped at all that's beyond our country is tiny city and it's at its peak it
retracts muscle claim is that the two ends of the Austrian the says it doesn't need very only
injury to his wrists which Israeli your area of expertise ABB few have seen and it's somebody
who has died from a similar injury I've never seen anybody die from a young girl free hand
laceration couple minute we are through a mixture of those seen new cases recorded I think we
found one in prison in Brazil that its favorite do more to end all the more information that is
provided the most suspicious when they came the paramedics described quite relieved that
there was a initial Blodgett the site to die you choose a loss amount but you would lose
promote trade to feds ago circulation before become their vessel the story began with the UK
government's controversial decision to join the United States in its invasion of iraq in 2003 the
government claimed it had evidence that the Yami sit down he's saying was able to launch
chemical or biological attack within 45 minutes it concludes that the rock hands chemical and
biological weapons that's that has continued to produce the that he has existing and active
military plans for the use of chemical and biological weapons which could be activated within
45 minutes including against shia population and that he is actively trying to acquire nuclear
weapons capability it David Kenny was sent multiple times to iraq as U.N. weapons inspector he
12

told ABC Genest 100 get again he was worried that the 45 minute flight was based on flawed
evidence the BBC he ran the story without naming any source that government officials when
David and say began at damaging route between public brought costa and the government I
asked the BBC when they will start buying allegation they made that we need for deliberately
exaggerate to a bee I'm the obvious question is Yes the a robust Yes event city dubbed
attendees 9 became public and clients private signs taste was thrust into the spotlight my
background is that scientists once a month to go to school but for the most views speak up use
called to give evidence in a pond mention hair and David Tenney faced tough questions I reckon
do chess you these two dozen to an already heated if so what we need he said happened he
would be under intense pressure energy Yes I think they were accusing him of making up these
sort of things and there was a set amount of unpleasantness so I could certainly see in these
under pressure I think suicide is that a possibility the group adult his chief complaint was that
normal Any sudden unexplained all violent deaths is procedure as it seems and being followed
by the investigation by Carmen in the UK that within hours authority of the body being found
the then Prime Minister Tony Abbott and opened a judicial enquiry into the death suit
proceeding a car is called but with less ego I wrote the old Hudson was given the task of
conducting the enquiry its PMI time such an enquiry has replaced the coroner's report one
individual tax in the U.K. Department of old happened with say rapid that there are a lot of
questions being lost the would never set aside a pretty don't know how to lose stops losing
party on the basis that Kelly had killed and that was a bit of an assumption where is he may
have killed himself.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 5 • 10:26 AM

B_AUG_WASH_12

great to have you here Mega been a fresh from a happy to be female conservative he thought
he and we have a key point if you don't mind on have your back my time you have always been
sort of odd man out I didn't feel like he fit and darted away from the people let it cool and
hanging out his room and starting playing games on the Internet kept the dream die hard we
could see the game well things started getting intoo role-playing which turned dank have
character thing you take on the character and the characteristics and they had nothing to do
with parents aren't aware first person shooter games right how old is your son we talk well at
that time he was 18 through 20 get and he started playing these games online first-person
shooter game is it John a rare White cake on weapons of all for it guns primarily and combative
each other online for big edge with bunches for a bunch of characters online you done anything
no but you're there to shoot and the state any lot of people think people and maimed video
game because they were cartoon looking they're not they're very explicitly factual and dark
videos fighters fighting sexual content if any parent with in time to look through some of these
things or do some of the investigating the my son started this thing is when and wait a minute
but your son didn't become a mass shooter become a mass shooter but I'm okay wide at one
point he had gotten to where I found out because one of his friends the County he was
contemplating suicide he just felt so alone and she said isolated but then he started making socalled friends on the Internet and doing all these character roles for everybody and not finely
said look like you cannot pray in a dark room all alone you know after school and play video
13

games for people you don't know and not come out so finely can put my foot down and made a
plan for him to come out and he'll be with people in our church which we actually had a really
really cool cute director but if you think about it not only video game with why it out there for
young people if you bet helping a and make them laugh you get 13 reason why which with
putin I don't he got euphoria which is an HBO sexual thing cut pain I thought way Let's not
raced through these things here you U forei ins and HBO show about sex and drugs for 13 to 15
year-old and its portrayal of Anna was great life that's why it's called you for Yeah 13 reasons
why I came is Netflix how that's going to be entering the season 3 0 on 13 reasons why the lead
character committed suicide and 13 reasons why are essentially 13 people in high school who
missed 3 hitter and the series is about her relationships with each of these people how she set
them up all be blamed when she took her life and it was a top 5 that flips joke it ry voles
stranger things now stranger things as its own young person's show about I try watch season
one am I guess I was blessed but I don't have kids I didn't get it I get tired of it after two
episodes I just don't I don't have a lot of fun watching 9 in 10 year-old run around learning
about life I don't take that the wrong on a TV show on TV show I just so I don't I my point is not
what what's stranger things I love about other it's a mixed make mass horror show to write
some monster in somewhere but of 13 reasons why there were all kinds of parent petition is an
am and request of Netflix Hey change this do some misses romanticizing suicide.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 5 • 1:15 PM

B_AUG_WASH_13

President Trump is calling for full reform of mental health laws to combat gun violence also to
mass shootings in the country over the weekend will hit from a gun policy expert so if you look
at all of that interpersonal violence that has caused by people with mental illness it's about 4%
there are far more likely to harm themselves through suicide or to be the victims of violent
crime we should absolutely be strengthening in addressing gaps in our mental health system
but that alone is not going to solve the problem
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 5 • 2:38 PM

B_AUG_OREG_21

an advocacy group for what policy is made up above the kind of public this course where were
people or where you end up with too many people looking Kim Kardashian's butt of well-known
issue but you will he end the most Noble and prestige of medical and wet fixture in over the
world act act that could feed can say a patient need not be dead before we take their organs
they need to be either profoundly disable or weaken live Harbor them with confab third he's
done now in belgium and back in 1993 when I first started I came out against euthanasia I
warned that if we go down the euthanasia row eventually there will be the idea wait a minute
we're going to be killing a patient they be great sources the organs in belgium where
euthanasia is legal they actually now enjoying euthanasia actively killing somebody with
stripping them of their organs with concerned or with file can we saw it in bed with Compan
and the people that they are looking to recruit with consent for organ stripping conjoined with
few the nature of our people with disabilities in her upscale disability and mental illness for
14

because they're killing euthanizing him belgium and the netherlands people with mental illness
from and I read and I quote him and the culture of Up by ie I quote the they respected
international organ transplant Journal that the score tied for patients being brought into the
hospital killed their lungs taken a stand and described how the transplants were successful one
of those patients mental illness of 3 with the table one movement we know that mental illness
with self-harming so good that quote treatment for the self-harming bus that killed a heartfelt
Harbor and basically couple felt armor your dad has greater value than your life because if you
allow a youth an issue we will then be able to take your organ for help people who want to live
I can't think of anything more dangerous to people and more abandoned me to people who
were proud to wear the staring whoever who were having difficulty getting from day to day the
County map expect perhaps having society believe that those well I I mean the famous line that
you hear people throw often in the comedy's were more than serious you know treatments is
I'd I'd be better off dead and the medical community and in the netherlands and belgium is
saying Yes you'd be better off dead and we'd be better off if you were dead because we could
have your parts it that's right that that is exactly the message that is beginning to be sent with
regard to euthanasia law and the netherlands and belgium add and those who think that a 5th
of to offend you the nature can be limited to the terminally ill art are are Whistling past the
graveyard because the base for euthanasia effect killing an acceptable for the human suffering
and there are a lot of people suffer far longer and far more profoundly than people who were
terminally ill and that's why while safe society generally accepts the proud of you see this
incredible play universe that never stops expanding 8 p.m. the in the Netherlands now fight
fighters killed mentally ill patients we know that about 60 patients per year these are not
people with cancer these are people with mental illnesses and they'll jump I mean I'm sorry we
got up from new York and harvesting the belgium elderly couple who fear it may even be helpi
who fear the future with a Hood are being killed in join UEFA nation gap morning from the idea
of me I'm a joint suicide belt the couple of the tragedy to a form of medical treatment of the
legal euthanasia law belgium it's really frightened I'm talking Wesley Matthews offer groceries
what he called true death from the discovery Institute how not to get too far into the weeds
but how do they get past the question of consent because ask about that but if you're treating
somebody you're here you have a patient who is mentally ill and his notch who in their right
mind how do you how do you get meaningful consent from someone who is clinically
depressed or not you are not mentally competent what you see in euthanasia advocacy the
difference between them for their ic of incapacitated and capable if you are if you're if you're a
law for example on assisted suicide you have to be capable of that injury able to communicate
what you want and so you end up with some very blurry line about it so somebody could be
very depressed but they'll be able to understand what to do with they're asking for right mean
Yeah they could but their mental state is not going to have another fact on the way he answer
the quest to court could issue a warrant for the and but you want to accept this culture of
death consciousness that killing of acceptable for the human suffering that the suffering that
cop with too few to becoming kill a person keep expanding because of you end up in a
circumstance where you're saying suffering because ending suffering or eliminating suffering
becomes the Bell and all and be all I want to accept the idea that eliminating suffering that
important state very Maybe make use of quickly morphed into eliminating the suffer maybe
should call your next book a little shop of horrors make the non-fiction version work every time
15

you see this beast it gets bigger and demands feed me more why you always the good that for
very good metaphor because once you accept the idea it moves and moons on most maps the
idea behind futile care appearing to give confab exposed to be could be the end-all be-all
personal economy that's a big issue in bioethics what happened without futile care period
which said they were going to refuse want life-sustaining treatment was pleased that this was
made the program chair at the Center for human except it wasn't the discovery instead the
offer of a culture of death the age of do harm medicine.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Aug 5 • 4:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_22

As you heard president trump laid out proposals to prevent the mass shootings and that
includes one tool in effect in Oregon. it is called the red flag law. kgw's kyle iboshi is in the
newsroom. it has been in Oregon for a while. >> it has. the state law took effect in 2017 and
allows police to step in before something bad happens. they can ask a judge to order guns
removed for someone at risk of suicide and this is what the president was talking about. >>
those that pose a grave risk to safety do not have access to firearms and they can be taken
through rapid due process. >> in Oregon when someone files a petition with the court, there is
a hearing in 24 hours. if the judge agrees all weapons and concealed handgun permits must be
surrendered. the law prevents the person from buying additional guns for one year. back to
you.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 5 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_23

this is katu news at 5:00 on your side. >> 1 >> 31 crosses for 39 lives lost. the death toll in el
paso, texas, reached 22 today as two more died in the hospital. >> mental illness and hatred
pulls the trigger. >> the president says -- >> we have to act. >> and again. >> we have a lot of
mental health problems in our country. >> tonight, what has been done to address mental
health and gun violence in our country and how are we being kept safe in our community. >>
those shootings can be a reminder of the gunfire inside clackamas town center in 2012 that left
three people dead include the gunman, who shot and killed himself. i'm lincoln graves.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Aug 5 • 6:03 PM

B_AUG_OREG_24

a big question, what can we do to stop this. for some people the answer is gun control. the
others are calling for action on mental health. one idea raised by president trump is effect in
Oregon. it’s called the red flag law that allows family members to step in before someone gets
hurt. kgw's kyle iboshi is live in the newsroom and how does it work? >> it allows police to step
in before something bad happens. they can ask a judge to remove someone at risk of suicide or
hurting others. it is called the extreme risk order. and it is what the president is talking about.
>> we are making sure that those that pose a graver rave risk to public safety do not pose a risk
to others. >> advocates say it is a good tool. >>> time can be critical. how quickly can the courts
16

step in? >> when a petition is a file and explaining why the family member is at risk and if the
judge agrees all weapons and permits must be surrendered in 24 hours. in Oregon the law
prevents the person from buying additional guns for one year. >> are we the only state with
this or other states? >> others have it, 17 states and the district of Columbia have red flag laws.
as you heard the president is supportive of this and plans to introduce a bipartisan bill on this.
>>> tonight's poll is about gun laws, do you feel national gun controneed to be stronger, yes or
no? head to kgw.com/vote to weigh in and you can vote on the knew anu kgw app.
News Radio KEX
Aug 5 • 6:38 PM

B_AUG_OREG_25

On the news this evening the death toll over the weekend has risen to 43 and County we go
now to our live on the scene who blood reports don't be mad at me the way I describe it that's
what it sounds like we're all pretending it's because Wow shown reverence for the dead what
reverence for the dead the debt don't get mentioned we don't want to get mentions did pull
the trigger maybe enjoy a hero are hinting hero but it doesn't matter he gets the notoriety he
wanted that's why more often than not these guys don't off themselves about a man was killed
himself the road kill themselves in older to get the notoriety and TV cudgel coverage he so
desperately wanted he had to do all that his journey doesn't begin until they arrested at tried
to kill himself why would he kill himself did not hang himself the reason he did this he did this
so reporters were coming as I did he wants to see his picture his mug shot on TV we'll see his
name emblazoned across there he wants to see everybody on the evening news on every
network saying his name what high school he went to the trouble you see us what he wrote on
social media pages what he did when he walked in what he was wearing what he was saying
and you know we're making it easy for the media is a shot of us the slot and as a nation we're
eat it up of course this is going to continue.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Aug 5 • 6:49 PM

B_AUG_WASH_14

reporter: is combat related posttraumatic stress disorder is too severe for him to stay in the
military. doctor say he needs help, but instead of leaving the army honorably for medical
reasons, in april a high-ranking army official made a choice to kick him out of the service
without honor, without va benefits, without help. the discharge, other than honorable. the
reason, misconduct. >> i don't know how to function normally and that's another reason, i don't
know what i'm going to do. in over seven months last year, smith got in trouble for three
alcohol-related incidents. twice he showed up to work drunk and then he got a dui. all behavior
doctors could've predicted. >> substance abuse is as much a part of ptsd as pain is a part of
cancer. >> reporter: the only one scott smith one of the best. not only is he decorated with
honors but in work evaluations, he consistently exceeded army standards, but what these
records don't show what smith's private struggle. >> i would be at work and have an anxiety
attack or panic attack and start freaking out and go get what i've always gotten, go get alcohol.
>> reporter: smith had a dui before the service when he was 22 but after his first deployment
17

he said he started turning to alcohol not just in social situations but to simply function. the
army sent him to treatment, their first of several attempts to get him help, but it didn't work.
>> it's when you get home that your brain starts processing everything that you went through
and we were trying to process it bio by ourselves and alcohol was the only way we could do it.
it wasn't going and talking to somebody. >> reporter: smith can talk about the helplessness he
felt in battle. listening over the radio to his friend died. he couldn't talk about what it felt like to
know that soldier died and somehow he made it out of three separate ied blasts. >> i told
myself over and over in my mind, just keep squeezing the trigger until you get shot. >> reporter:
on the same diplomat, smith says his platoon walk-through in afghanistan village right after the
u.s. military hit it with mortars. >> you see kids burnt up and toys and stuff on the ground and
women burnt up. >> reporter: a memory that haunts him more now that he has a family. >> it is
somebody's kid over there. >> reporter: last year all that unresolved pain came to a head, that's
when smith started showing up to work late and drunk. the army again sent him to treatment
and they put him on a track to get out of the military with a medical discharge. it's the same
process they've used to separate tens of thousands of other soldiers with ptsd. after smith in
december got that second dui as a soldier, his captain put a spot a stop to that medical track.
he recommended his superiors that the army instead punish smith by kicking him out for
breaking the rules. this is neuropsychologist robert stennis who specializes in treating veterans.
we asked him to review smith said smith's record. >> if you look at what's being called
misconduct, it's really a measure of the severity his symptoms. >> reporter: two psychiatrists
who examined smith in person agreed. smith was using alcohol to avoid his trauma, to relieve
the symptoms of his ptsd. in the end, it would be up to not a doctor, but a major general at
joint base lewis mccord to decide whether the struggling soldier deserves lifelong benefits and
help or nothing at all. and you already know smith walked away empty-handed. >> i should've
picked a different career. >> reporter: commanding generals always have the power to decide a
soldier's fate in the army, even though suffering from medical issues like ptsd, those decisions
are now coming under scrutiny. last year we introduced you to the sheldon veteran. >> we
witnessed a mass lottery. >> reporter: he too was diagnosed with severe ptsd. more than once
he tried to commit suicide but against the advice of the army's own doctors, an official kicked
him out of the military with another than honorable discharge because he smoked weed. after
our investigation, whistleblowers at madigan army medical center came forward, they told us
the army has a pattern of punishing soldiers who are like ball and smith. >> just like the rats
jumping out of the water, get them out. >> reporter: soldiers who fought their wars, suffered
immensely and now really just need help. what do leaders have to say about that? we've been
asking for interviews about this issue for nearly a year. they declined and in a statement, a
spokesman said that smith was treated to a fair separation process, he said army officials
consider input from medical providers when making the decisions but the army is sticking by
their decision. >> it's ironic, they are diagnosed with post dramatic stress and the army just
severs as if that has no relation to their service. it's hard to get my head around this. so what is
next for these guys and what is big picture? is this happening to more people? >> reporter: ball
and smith have left the state of washington, they are filing claims with the va. they're not
guaranteed to get help but they are trying to get it. we know from people coming forward to us
from what the whistleblowers say that this is still a big problem and we are going to keep
reporting on this.
18

KOAB (PBS)
Aug 5 • 7:25 PM

B_AUG_OREG_26

we mustntal state of the killers. health laws to better identify reform our mental mentally
disturbed individuals who may commit acts of violence and make sure these people notment,
but when only get treat confinem necessary, involuntaryent. mental illness and hatred
pullstrigger, not the gun. the >> nawaz: we look now at s the questions that are again inome of
the air, in particular, what, if should be done anything, can or to curb gun deaths in this
country. shanwe get two views. demand actnon watts is founder of moms organization she
established inion, a grassroots the days after the 2012 shootinglementary school, at sandyhook
e to strengthen larry wardu.s. gun laws. is chief marketing officer with gun dynamics, aun-rights
group that promotes gand the gun industry.ng the time. shannon, i'll start with you welcome to
you both. thank you for makiand if you. i want to take a moment, day like can, on ay americans
are reeling today, when man weekend, what is your mes from the events over the them? what
specifically are tsage to see put intohe changes you would like towell, we are specifically place?
>> calling on congress to come bdo theirack from recess and to to pass legislation that w jobs.
we're asking them states, e've seen work in theon every ga background check sale, 21 un
asstates now require that, as well red flag 17 states have red legislation.nd have shown flag
laws a interrupting gun to be essential in gun suicide andfor congress to do their homicide, and
it is time otect americans instead ojob and unf protecting g manufacturers' >> larry ward, what
was your profits.vents of thisreaction when you heard about the e horrified. weekend? >> i was
violence is terrible. at the end of the day, all gun that keeps ha we're looking at this thing again.
according to thppening over and over prevention research center,e crime shooter and mas 94%
of these activeins shootings take place ree zones. gun-f what you just hea >> shannon, what's
your response lar. >> first of all,rd from larry true most it's notin mass shootings occur most
gun-free zones. residenoccur in private violence.ces and domestic free wal-mart was not a gun
zone. allowed in open carry was were armed wal-ma and there happened. customers when the
shooting it's been so those are talking points. over debunked over andcks required on again.
there are no background che sales in unlicensedin 29 states, it's this country and mi helped so
many criminalso guns. and nors get easy access tone law wthe idea just because ave stopped
oneouldn't hhat specific mass shooting t as shouldn't have been passed is nine. we don't sayone
law talk care of is going tow they would work on guches. we knoral a fede. >> we want to as
level the president said,k you about what talking about mental what people are health.s
shooter the sutherland spring health issue and had a serious mental comprise a large number
suicides actuallyeaths in america. so what' of gun violence dat argument. s your response to th
homicides only about 5% of>> when you look at gunhow shooters sany sign illness. we know of
mentalare menpeople who likely to betally ill are moreand victims of gun violence after the
sandy perpetrators. it's a talking point. blamed video hook, they games, movies andental m.
studies show illness a it's none of that. we have25% higher hiring guns suicide rate because ofd,
19

you're a gun themselves. >> larry war owner. you're speaking on owners who behalf of
gunminority o comprie a regulations wof americans. what safetyo sign on to?uld you be willing
tabout safety, i'm talking >> if we're talking safety, and the only way about peop somebody
with murderous to stop to shoot, intent that goes into a place t to run over, place to stopo drop
a bomb, the only is to have people these peoplehore wity to defend themsel vigilant with their
abil around them and to makeves and the peoplee that law sur are abiding citizens see, what
happened armed so they can act. there happened to in date onescer there. of course, thabe an
armed police offi wholet most of those stores and area has and clubs were all restaurants gunfree zones, so tha place wat's why theonnen,s ch but thank god there was an officerhe dayton
shooting. at the s there. >> let me ask you about t died in the shooting.ame time, nine people
nothing could you sayingnt the have been done to prevecase hasn't deaths? >> the whole lot
made aboutcome out. there was a whole blaming president trump, you blaming, you know,
know, ands and ideas on t president trump's policie border. so weheivations don't know the
mot shooter. of that particular them? would anything have stopped driven -- no, he could
havend driven it and rented a truck aunch of people. run over a b didn't use >> but hese add
gun. we knowa truck. he u. i want to st he doesn't use a truck knowick toto what we the
motivation of. as you mentioned, we do not knowshooter at this point. it is the dayton alleged
have true in america right now we in circulation more gunslarge portion of thanmericans, and a
that ownership is americans, so i'm trying to concentrated in a minority of seem to be saying t
understand from you, and you nothg you would be willing that there's additional safetyo do,
there's noing to agree on. regulations you would be willou know, look, com is that right? >>
well, y what i consider ae to us withy regulation, which in additional safetg gun-frees endin is
you know, having mor zones, which,k, everybodye people -- loo >> what is is --u can show the
data yo death in that shows that prevents >> well, what d america? that showsata can you
show gun-free zonesfrom actually stop anybody >> let me tell you what shooting? l waiting
periods, data we have, federantlyfor example, can sig. background c lower gun violence in
americay lower gun violencehecks can significantl of those be in america. would either
amenable to proposed safety in all of the states in the regulations. >> there are background
checks background checks. united states, there are are -- the you know, there guns out ofre's
due process to get hands of people with mentalyou can't have a gu illness. if you commit a
crime, there are very, vern in most states. control laws in all the citiesy strict gun one's talking
of america, and noin chicago where they h about the 47 shootings strict gun controlave very >>
shannon, i would like to laws.even years since thask you, it's been s at sandy hooke mass
shootings reason you b elementary, which is theis work in the firstegan thlot of people said
back t if place. a of 20 the murderen could notchildren ages six and sev our gun laws bring
people to actually changenothing will. do y in america that weekend's eou see anything in
thedvents that woul you to believe now i lead tos the time>> moms demand action i change?
largest gun violence preves thetion in the country. we are larger thanntion organiza we o the
n.r.a. midtermutspent them in the elections and them. we outmaneuvered elections won in the
midterm 2020. there and we'll beat them in the hands are 4 million guns in of civilians in
america. if that made us saf safest in theer, we would be the world. number of we have the
highest the history gun laws int is byof nations. the only way we fix tha getting off the every
americans and using voices sidelineants and demanding and voave it there. change. >> we len
watts, thank you very larry ward and shanno much for your time.
20

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 5 • 8:53 PM

B_AUG_WASH_15

the air force is taking an extraordinary step to deal with an epidemic of suicide for the first time
ever all units will take a day off from training for now to September 15th the air force is calling
it a tactical pause and says it's about giving our air meant time that act to connect to break
down barriers to getting help so far this year the air force report 78 suicides that's 28 more
than this time last year.
KOAB (PBS)
Aug 6 • 7:25 PM

B_AUG_OREG_27

it's men because it understand why he said that of people already resonates with what lotsl
illness. believe about mentaare that but the facts ty of people with mental the vast majorie not
violent illnesses ar they never will b towards other people. releasede. and our report just prev
today would suggest the among pealence of mental illness shootings, or massrpetrators of
mass is in the violence, is about the same as ita very complexgeneral population. it's problem
"fix mental. it's not a solution health" is a slogan.s, it's a solution to ato anything. if it i health
quite different public of peep with mental problem which is the problem community who
illnesses out in the better need let me ask minutial health care. >> heard from other people on
thyou something we to be someone whoe president's team, look, in order heinous attack, you
carries out this kind of mentally ill in have to beat do you say to that? some way. wh too, to say
>> yeah, i understand that, massacres a someone who goes out and you know, that's not bunch
of strangers, healthy mind. act of a person who it might be a alienated and trouis bled and
angry and, wh resentfulg ino's marinatinho is hate; someone w hopeless, indifferent and kinds
of problems withwho has allses. but it doesn't mean all kinds of cau have that theyl ione of the
menta psychiatrists as, you llnesses defined by thinking know, a disorder of or or mood, like
schizophrenia depression. bipolar disorder or these tens of millions of americans have th
illnesses, and overwhelming majority of them eer are not violent towards oth conversation abo
people. they'd love to have ah care, and it's toout improving mental healt the day whenpthe
bad we have it onng. there are many solutions, re's a mass shootit to tryi think, that we could
talk abou to address mass is shootings. mental illnessributing factor. buone contf many, and,
you know, ift it's just one o we cured mental violence in s illness, our problem of aboutociety
would go down byhat there's no 4%. so it's not t relationship at all. would start but we can it's
not quite the place you>> let me ask you a certainly talk about it. solutions webout one of the
proposed far which are've heard about so laws, th these so-called red flagsomeone who is
potene idea that you can identify e sure they etially violent in advance and mak take away the
one ither don't have a weapon orwhat do you make of thosethat they have. solutions? >> well, i
possible idea. i think th think they're a good piece in the puzzle ofey're an importantrevention
because gun violence p we have a kindthe fact is that disconnect between the laws of a
designed that aren to prevent certai the point of people from accessing guns at and sale risk.
there are lots of people actual e prohibited from guns, who ar had an i maybe because
theynvoluntary commitment 25 years they aren't posing ago, and anyone. meanwhile, ta risk to
risk, anghere are lots of people who do pose a ry impulsive would passpeople whound check
21

because they a backgro don't have any record. so a tool like gun-disqualifyingused not on this is
foc illness. it's mental behavior focused one a neighbor and indicators of risk. if you'r acting in a
the person next door isng way and is really threatening, menaci firearms, in man massing can
do about that ify states there's nothing you person, you know, thatsed, hasn't done anythiisn't
criminally accu one of the states thang or committed a crime. at hasyou can reach out to lawn
extreme risk protection law, ent. they can investigate it, and enforcemrobable cause they can t
a civ if there's p remove thatil court order to temporarily for their ownn's firearms crimi good.
it's not thing ifnalizing. and you can do the same most of these your family member, under let's
say a statutes,in a relative of yours is you know, your loved o suicidal crisis and has guns. say,ne
is, let's bereaved or drinking heavily depressed ands guns and, you know, this and har life
because l might save theit suicide. ots of people attempe, they are very likely if they use
anything elsif they use a firearm to survive. , it's so survive. lethal, that they almost neverople
fro we just want to stop so many pen limiting m dying. we could focus oand i think access to
lethal means. actually is this law things t one of the few fihat can gap between peoplnd some
common ground and bridge the and people whoe who want to do gun controlhat it's people
think t guns w and not >> common ground.ho kill people. these days. something we're all loong
for swanson professor jeff rue medicine, thank yo, duke university school ofu very much. >>
thank you for having me.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 6 • 8:10 PM

B_AUG_OREG_28

Dr. Mark newton he is the pastor of the Augustana Lutheran church they're going to have a vigil
tonight at 6 p.m. focused on gun violence racism and heat where do things like suicide and gang
violence fit into your focus on gun deaths at you we're talking now but most specifically
because of these two most recent mass shootings but that's not the majority of of the reason
people die from guns in this country the say this point we were focused on terms of the divorce
oregon that's been particularly multiethnic itself all the great traditions of Islam Judaism boom
native American leaders others and it's it's Sup people of good will and we're focusing on
assault weapons we have letters we have but not about one issue ready go about third time in
16 months to make it happen the state we're focusing on Clark past magazines and assault
weapons for one particular reason those symbols of gun violence in America today we have to
take those symbols away again as you do that you're also open if you take the lead here other
laws get passed registration laws dealing with with suicide and in the availability of guns you
guys start any through some goals and in our young people others say that's not the number
one cause of death of course not Faso sides but indeed the symbolism is important remove for
a couple reasons one is sure the Foundation board for two years after 9 we change our
definition of health from the complete mental physical mental and social well-being to the
complete complete of having physical mental and spiritual social health assault weapons affect
all 4 of our young people we don't have a generation the state is not in the last 24 years is not a
lockdown drills together think their physical well-being their mental well being are social will be
redoing schools and our spiritual is a world issue of our day we talk about God who lost big
sorts in the posh shares and Spears printed books it was sunny Ward more these are weapons
of war we remove those and and and and banned the sale in Oregon will be a watershed for the
22

nation and open conversation and other smart gun law Of hunters can punch those issued a
harsh Yes that's not being taken away but smart thinking for the generations coming after us
and not just for ourselves why do you think this latest effort to you're embarking on to to ban
the sale of certain semiautomatic rifle is large and large capacity magazines and then make it so
existing owners of those weapons we have to pass a criminal background check and also
register with the state if it didn't work twice before power was a third trial going to be different
if you were a marathon we against personal faith you trust you have the long haul as I keep
rebuilding your enthusiasm to worship in prayer and action the first families have stopped this
report overall title are legislation is great we had 100000 people his siren's say would slam dock
the legislation which bills they get traction there's a lot of fear a lot of threats of people clergy
rabbi on friends and my gut Sergey know was like get threats were used to that will do
immigration reform sanctuary you name it lgbtq rights and look at threats plot leslie use them
so there's a fear about trying it passed more legislation passed one built what would you tell
those lawmakers and if you're talking about going to voters it seems again this time and as
opposed to lawmakers but what would he tell lawmakers who were afraid of getting those
threats come alongside its stock Let's talk about hate speech cycle our responsibility for every
word going to treat is a silly not to like each other I said I love everybody I mean I like your
politics comment likely priced christian face because you're talking about love to talk about it
our epic as christians is love that's the banner over which everything else goes I'm encouraged
legislatures be bold be courageous protect your family and me would be smart but the more
people coming gauged them more or possibly fear can never stop us Dr King's fear not the
North faith answer nobody was there we can't let fear is the driving factor we have to be bold
for our children and generations coming after us markets thanks very much we are done we
know David Miller thank you so much.
KLSR (FOX)
Aug 7 • 10:02 PM

B_AUG_OREG_29

In our continuing coverage tonight, gun control say hotly debated topic across the country in
the wake of the recent mass shootings including 2 this weekend which killed at least 31 people.
extreme risk protection orders, sometimes referred to as erpos or red flag laws are gun
violence prevention tools. 17 states have passed red flag legislation including oregon and
washington. lines for life, chief operating officer, david westbrook says erpos were designed to
prevent firearm use in suicide and following the passage. the laws, a study found gun- related
suicides fell 13.7% in indiana and 7% in connecticut. >> poem to have the guns removed were
people feeling -- people to have the guns removed were people feeling suicidal. >> evidence
that red flag laws reduce violent homicides or mass shootings is more than suggestive than
definitive. the public agency has not performed a large-term study of state laws because of an
amendment passed by a former arkansas representative prevented the use for them to
advocate for gun control. >> tramping to coos bay for a rally. we have more. >> the group
patriot prayer will join local gun rights advocates at a second amendment rally at the boardwalk
this weekend. >> the rally is saturday, 3:00 p.m. it is against gun regulations arch shootings in
ohio and texas. >> it is so powerful we don't think about that. when you see loss. life, 20 people
in one night, a horrible thing but it is psychological. >> reporter: he says statistically a rifle is one
23

of the safest guns to own and that taking guns away has a homeland security risk. rob taylor, a
petitioner of the second amendment ordinance. >> giving a directive to the county not to
enforce and firearm regulations that are coming out of the state and out of the federal
government. we believe the right to bear arms should not be infridged. >> reporter: they
expect to collect the rest of the 5,000 signatures needed. >> the coos bay police department
has been in contract with patriot prayer, monitoring social media web sites about the rally and
coordinating with other law enforcement to have a police presence at the boardwalk and the
community center. reporting in coos county, back to you.
KTVL (CBS)
Aug 7 • 11:04 PM

B_AUG_OREG_30

a vigil was held in portland last night in response to the mass shootings organizers are taking
action against gun violence. series of measurements brought people together yesterday.
mourning the live of 31 people who were killed over the weekend. faith leaders are calling for
change, and an end to hate. asking for people to support a 2020 ballot measure that would ban
the sale of assault weapons and large capacity magazines. >> not it is starting to feel like this
could happen anywhere. this could happen to any of us. >> some of those at the vigil worried
about another mass shooting. as of today, 17 states already have past red flag loss legislation,
including oregon and washington, but are they working, and will they prevent a mass shooting.
erp as or red flag laws are gun violence prevention tools. since oregon and acted as his own
version in 2018, the law has yielded 117 petitions . of those, 92 were granted, 29 were denied.
lines of my chief operating officer david westbrook says erpos they were designed to prevent
firearms used in suicide and domestic violence. >> the first people to actually have guns
removed were the people who were feeling suicidal, and that is an appropriate place for those
lost. that the evidence that red flag laws reduce violent homicide the mass shooting is more
suggestive than definitive, according to the director of the centers for disease control and
prevention. according to the giffords law center for prevent gun violence, washington has been
given an a- for overall gun violence prevention. >>> a warning about donation scams in the
wake of mass shootings in dayton and el paso. the cyber agency is issuing that this week. telling
people to beware of fraudulent emails. social media post, calls, texts, donation websites, and
even door to door knocks. soliciting donations. research charities or crowdfunding campaigns
yourself, make sure it's clear exactly where your money is going. expert they do not click on
links in unsolicited email messages asking for money.
KVAL (CBS)
Aug 7 • 11:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_31

Continuing coverage tonight, gun control a hotly debated topic across the country in the wake
of recent mass shootings including two this weekend. 31 people were killed. extreme risk
protection orders, sometimes they referred to as red flag laws are tauted as gun law prevention
tools. 17 states have passed red flag legislation. that includes oregon and washington. the chief
operating officer are lions for life, david west brook says the laws were designed to present
guns from being used in suicides and domestic violence. after those laws were passed, one
24

study conducted by psychiatric services found gun- related suedes fell 7.5% in Indiana, 13.5 in
Connecticut. >> first people to actually have guns removed were the people who were feeling
suicidal and that, that is an appropriate place for those laws. >> evidence that red flag laws
reduced violent homicides or mass shootings is more suggestive than definitive according to the
director of the center for disease control for disease control. the agency has not performed a
long-term study of state laws, mainly because of an amendment passed in 1996 by a former
Arkansas representative. it prevented the use of federal funds to advocate for gun control.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Aug 12 • 11:58 AM

B_AUG_OREG_32

questions remain surrounding the death of financier and accused sex trafficker jeffrey he died
in his Manhattan jail cell on Saturday. it was an apparent suicide. thank you for joining us. an
autopsy right now is complete, but we are waiting for the results of that. meanwhile, the justice
department and the f eir demanding answers as to why he was taken off suicide watch. chris
boswell has the latest. >> reporter: an autopsy report is expected to reveal more information
about the death of jeffrey epstein. he was facing federal charges for sex trafficking. he was
found dead in his manhattan jail cell in an apparent suicide. the medical examiner's office and it
completed the autopsy on sunday, but delayed the release of the report, saying it needed more
information. >> i'm confident in our medical examiner's office. i'm not confident at all in the
justice department. on many levels. >> reporter: attorney general william barr says that it raises
serious questions that must be answered. u.s. attorney and in aetna's focus on these sex
trafficking operations and associates. >> that means potential charges could come as well. >>
reporter: the apparent suicide sparking conspiracy theories. president trump retreating a
baseless theory implicating the clintons. >> reporter: he had ties to the clintons and president
trump. >> i think the president just want everything to be investigated. trying to connect to the
president to this monster from years ago where they are seen dancing in a video, versus other
people who are actively, i suppose, flying around with this monster on his island, which was
known as pedophilia island, perhaps there is a public interest in knowing more about that. >>
reporter: he was on suicide watch, but was taken off in late july.
KTVL (CBS)
Aug 12 • 12:03 PM

B_AUG_OREG_33

convicted pedophile and accused sex trafficker jeffrey epstein is dead by apparent suicide and a
lot of people including bill barr want to know how it could've happened while he was in federal
custody in manhattan and barr has already ordered an investigation. he had been held in the
manhattan correctional center since his arrest in july pleading not guilty to federal charges after
prosecutors accused him of sex trafficking dozens of underaged girls. his request to await trial
at his mansion was denied and he was ordered to stay at his facility. they say he was found
dead early saturday morning and shocking news for epstein's accusers who have continued to
speak out . suspected jeffrey epstein rape you? >> yes . >> he said he has to live with the scars
of his actions and whatever face the consequences of the crimes committed. the death of
jeffrey epstein came 24 hours after documents were unsealed in a case from a epstein accuser.
25

the 2015 defamation suit was filed and she said she was underaged when he kept her as a sex
slave for many years and among them was prince andrew in 2001. the apparent suicide was not
stop in the investigation into his crimes and his death may result in even more scrutiny for his
inner circle of wealthy friends including the one implicated which even includes his friend. holly
williams reports from london. >> reporter: documents contain allegations that ghislaine
maxwell played a role in jeffrey epstein's abuse ring directing an underage girl to have sex with
epstein and others. maxwell denies the allegations and jack scarola is an attorney who has
represented the victims. >> there are multiple victims who claim that ghislaine maxwell was a
personal participant in recruiting them and their allegations that she was an active participant
in the abuse. >> reporter: ghislaine maxwell has been described as epstein's ex-girlfriend and
assistant and a socialite who helped connect him with the wealthy and famous. she even
founded a charitable environmental group but ghislaine maxwell has also been described as a
madam. Jack scarola says that included ghislaine maxwell . >> when a nonprosecution
agreement is entered into that grants immunity to ghislaine maxwell and other named and
unnamed co-conspirators for unspecified crimes, that just doesn't make any sense at all. >>
another famous person in the scandal is prince andrew. the unsealed documents repeat
allegations maxwell trafficked to prince andrew and neither ghislaine maxwell or prince andrew
have been charged with any crime and buckingham palace said in a statement any suggestion
of impropriety with under age minors is not true but prince andrew and his friendship with
jeffrey epstein are once again on the front page.
News Radio KEX
Aug 12 • 12:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_34

we hear away here to reports of william Barber visiting Jeffrey Epstein these reports now none
confirmed but don't give a there they're making the rounds that william Barb visited Epstein a
couple weeks us earlier you grow up at that shortly after that visit is what he was taken off
suicide war logs you and celebrities weighing young by Deborah messing says it finally killed
someone on 5th Avenue hopes and says barred gives tips the enough rope to close the case I'm
proud of that but at the but it but honestly you have to think well here here is william barr
misses the attorney general and he's speaking now and he's not pleased with what happen I
was a full and indeed the whole Department was and frankly to learn of the ems CC's failure to
adequately secure this prisoner we are now learning of serious irregularities at this facility they
are deeply concerning and demanded a thorough investigation the fbi and the office of
inspector general we'll get to the bottom of what happened and there will be accountability but
let me assure you that this case will continue gone against anyone who was complicit any
coconspirators should not rest easy the victims deserve just Press off grew up with you think he
wants his words back if you watch his words back after his appearance on that that the pod cast
when he talked about Justice Supreme court you play this last week I tell you what your
impression viewed it at the time you probably didn't really realize how big this is going to be a
message here is that he's not he's not a podcast and and its crime stories the name of the pod
cast to talk about Justice and meet Justice case the White out whom may interesting the right
outcome it doesn't do jeffrey epstein qualifies at that you know probably Yeah and you foe if
you this am if he's done what he's done as a lot of people that are now we have one less
26

pedophile great now but the attorney general Ha Ha that's what really justices that's hope you
have a longing I believe the sense of Justice is hardwired human beings don't ask me why but it
is they're in it's satisfying to see just this dog now it is true go away I think we all since when
one there's been an injustice it's why I think some people are so dedicated to stay on the case
for 20 years about somebody who might have been put in prison Wrongfully for murder or
something like that there there it adds through DNA testing whatever they're they're vindicated
these people released so am I and is a big deal our system works sometimes moment the works
and we feel angry when we see injustice that isn't rectify what they're a perfect example we
feeling everyone it's not rectified Americans have tended it recently to to view more processed
as the criminal Justice process is just us it and it is it's a process it's so Post with chief Justice but
very frequently doesn't that well that's why we have a system with there's always people out
there working moved to make sure Justice is done.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Aug 12 • 12:14 PM

B_AUG_OREG_35

now to the very latest on the death of accused sex trafficker jeffrey epstein... which federal
authorities say is an "apparent suicide." the house judicial committee is demanding answers
from the bureau of prisons about his death. and, as john lorinc reports... the legal battles linked
to epstein have not gone away. the f-b-i has started an investigation into jeffrey epstein's
death. elie honig/cnn legal analyst "he was probably the highest priority and highest profile
person in the custody in the bureau of prisons at the time and second of all he had reportedly
had a recent suicide attempt." attorney general william barr released a statement saturday that
said he was "appalled" that the multi-millionaire died while in federal custody. barr also said
the inspector general is opening an additional investigation because "epstein's death raises
serious questions that must be answered." sen. ben cardin/d-maryland "it is very difficult to
understand how he was not on a suicide watch and how this happened without some
involvement of those who were responsible to hold him safely." epstein was reportedly found
with marks on his neck july 23rd and was placed on a suicide watch. psychologists took him off
suicide watch at the end of july -- according to a source familiar with the matter. on friday
unsealed court documents revealed new allegations of sexual abuse claims against epstein and
several associates. he was dead the next day. and although epstein is dead..... the alleged
crimes linked to him are still alive. elie honig/cnn legal analyst "anyone who helped jeffrey
epstein run this sex trafficking ring, promote, profit from it should still be very worried.
southern district has made clear: we're not done, we're still going for the co- conspirators."

27

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 12:15 PM

B_AUG_WASH_16

the apparent suicide of suspected sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein raising a lot questions as we
hear from NBC'S Tom Llamas ABC news is learning new details about the security break down
surrounding accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide inside of Manhattan jail
cell his death by hanging now being investigated by the fbi and the inspector general a source
telling ABC news the Metropolitan Correctional center has been understaffed leading to low
morale among BART's another source tells us that the two guards in the special housing unit or
texting was being held we're both on overtime one of the guards on his 5th overtime ship of
the week and that those guards were supposed to check on 16 every 30 minutes but did not in
the hours before he was disc Over Saturday morning attorney Bruce sport it represents and
teens former cellmate who roomed with him around 3 weeks ago when steve was found
unresponsive with marks on his neck at the time and he was put on suicide watch but only for 6
days one has to wonder howard is with us Mary just tried to take his own life by hanging
himself a few weeks ago was in a position to successfully hang himself and the teen's death
coming less than 24 hours after 2000 pages of new court documents including depositions and
police reports were made public you screaming on the inside and you don't have to let it come
out all you do is obey that's it in those unsealed documents virginia robert ku phrase 2015
defamation suit against Julien Maxwell a British socialite and longtime associate who had things
accusers have described as Madame in deposition testimony goof races that Maxwell who
recruited her to be teenage sex slave to abstain and that edge team directed her to have sex
with powerful men including former new mexico governor bill richardson former Maine Senator
George Mitchell and Prince Andrew all of the men have denied those allegations jeffrey what
he wants a lot of this training came from to let herself Maxwell has consistently denied the
allegations and so far has not been charged but prosecutors pledging to take down anyone who
conspired with at steam to commit his years of alleged sexual assault on underage girls and
have steen steel labored performance some of his accusers you did Yeah I really want Justice I
really wanted him to take up for what he did it and to be put in jail or prison common have to
sit there and think about what it is he exactly did so many people following absent suicide
President Trump re-tweeted to conspiracy theories that were completely baseless suggesting
bill clin To was somehow behind the suicide because get past Association with ever see again
no proof completely baseless we should also mention that President Trump himself had a past
relationship with jeffrey epstein both presidents say they knew nothing about these terrible
crimes.
AM 860
Aug 12 • 12:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_36

be answered one of the team at least speculative for ideas about how he may have died
because is that they haven't released any of that they don't know there was an autopsy but he
had been and will everyone should keep in mind he had not been imprisoned that long had
been imprisoned for or less than 5 weeks and I just been taken off suicide watch sean July 20
third during the period since suicide Wash their reports are I believe these are authoritative
28

now that he'd been meeting 13 hours a day with his various attorneys he had full war very
prominent very well paid attorneys obviously can afford if he's worth 550 million dollars which
is what he claimed and he Some speculation is said he may have requested that some
medication from the attorneys who brought it to him boom that mean well because those
medication that have been prescribed him but medication could being taken all once said
overdose with many pills once have ended his life who knows we will soon they meet one thing
we do know right now is that President Trump has read tweeted a video of a bike terrence
came williamson he did then within hours after finding out about jeffrey epstein staff and was a
bad choice for the present big cars as the ie what he tweeted out which of the hashtags clinton
circle of death and hashtag clinton body count those two hashtags implying that bill and hillary
clinton are responsible there was also still photograph showing the comedian who was an
african-american guy talented guy by the and named terence K williams this is identified as an
actor comedian commentators from oklahoma city and they showed the picture of a task K
williams next to a picture bill clinton a picture of hillary clinton and it very clearly suggested the
bill and hillary were responsible somehow now for at scenes death and here is some of the
video what it sounded like with karen kay williams commenting about every have seen
something that was retweeted by the leader of the free world to is it's over 16 million Twitter
followers around the world listen and I'm shaking my head I'm not surprised I tell saw less gone
happy but didn't nobody would listen to me but being guess what guys the line he did you know
what all the liberal media conspiracy to cheers and tears you come O crazy conspiracy and
beauty to be banned from Twitter and B guess what the main brilliant that David you know
what he did he get information on the clearance in demand in about a day now for some odd
reason not risen people from asia McCLAIN and outdated and they usually not a suicide come
on now come on now now well the way everybody down from suicide they got Jemele you okay
and you know what to be honest with you I want to know nothing about coins telltale mean
nothing I'm not trying to end up paying even more of Hillary as did you know I know I don't
know bill playing eat boogers don't tell me that they're not alone in that day I don't want to
hear no I can hear you I'm don't already here I'm nothing in there Dan like everybody else you
know what now say who killed that man does because you know it could end up being and Bo
Mar but but but the word around Shreveport the claims beating I'm just out just another way
may have hoped that I had found that the myself somebody tell me that was normal because
clearly then you end of the day if you are a high profile case in prison come home now and you
also lose now watch it and you die House was not imprisoned Yeah okay somebody not doing
their job or somebody got paid math tutor not
to do their job so somebody can get knocked out so information don't come out don't know
that I'm the Don't OK that's like Mr. Williams terrence K williams I am greatly understating I
apologize for that President Trump's number of Twitter followers not 16 million inside were
only loosely suggested 63 million and here is no argument about crowd size Yeah I was just
wrong and was fake news on my part to say 60 to 63 million B ball got to see the wisdom of
terrance cain Williams a regarding the jeffrey at steam apparent suicide I am I do think we will
find out and hear more about this vOm the one thing that I think is most striking about some of
the charges against
News Radio KEX

B_AUG_OREG_37

29

Aug 12 • 12:31 PM
attorney general bar took a moment to comment on the esteemed assist suicide question Mark
I was appalled and indeed the whole Department was and frankly to learn of the MCC his
failure to adequately secure are the prisoners we are now learning of serious irregularities at
this facility they are deeply concerning and demanded a thorough investigation the fbi and the
office of inspector general we will get to the bottom of what happened and there will be
accountability but let me assure you that this case will continue gone against anyone who was
complicit with that I think any coconspirators should not rest easy the victims deserve Justice
and they won't get Yeah what about everybody else the and those who were complicit well and
there's a a lot of names and a lot of no implied names that were released shortly before he
committed suicide quote committed suicide what ever happened to him you know it's some
some of the illegal act documents were revealed by the judge and some names gopro up
including Prince andrew I think into a number of other people who apparently were involved
with with ger jeffrey have seen and so there's some people wondering if maybe that's what
wasn't what caused it either he went over the edge because it was it was too much pressure
because all its information is now out or if one of those people was named or implied to be
named in that brief decided to take him out Dorrance Frankie to Jules thing for godfather too
Yeah I and here is Marc Lotter the communications staffer said the president's campaign asked
about you that within a few minutes of news coming up the President retweeted a theory that
the clintons were behind the the death of Jeffrey Epstein and so here is Mark lot responding to
that I think the President was basically asking some of the questions we saw millions of
americans probably asking themselves whether be odd social media or just even in their own
private conversations about the very strange circumstances around around this person that you
even had the attorney general of the United States today say that there are some serious
irregularities with this case that need to be investigated the President and his entire
administration our very affirming the fact we need…
AM 860
Aug 12 • 12:45 PM

B_AUG_OREG_38

just breaking news defense attorneys revealed they push for Epstein to be taken off suicide
watch defense attorneys push for Jeffrey Epstein to be taken off suicide watch ahead of his
death on Saturday so said an unidentified source the financier who was jailed on federal sex
trafficking charges we all now had been on suicide watch after an apparent earlier suicide
attempt was taken off ahead of his death sources told ABC news that have steen had to
undergo multiple psychiatric evaluations before officials decided to take him off suicide watch
there's likely no video showing F seems apparent suicide death as sources told ABC news that
does not appear the cameras are trained on individual cells the special housing unit where he
was held there are trained rather On the whole way so if anyone went in to his cell somehow
they eat they would have a record of that but apparently there is no such record so the death
continues have also a mystery surrounding the one thing I do need to say vs Terrence Williams
video the president Reid tweeted goes about all the people who died in and suicides
surrounding bill Clinton apparent suicide a claim their suicide implying there's something other
30

than that murder there's only one which was vince foster who was counsel to the President and
former law partner of Hillary Clinton’s and Yes Yes there were reports I believe groundless but
who knows that Hillary Clinton was emotionally involved romantically involved with vince foster
I don't think that is true but I do know that it's true because Ken starr investigated thoroughly
vince foster committed suicide he was on suicide watch she had he had to and by the way you
left a suicide note he he had been diagnosed by his psychiatrist and treated for suicidal aviation
and he he was a very big suicide risk at the time he took his own life and the fact that there
were some fringe conspiracy theories about vince foster was murdered by bill Clinton because
he knew too much own place and by the way I think that's about as live been responsible for as
the claim now though there must be clinton connection or the claim and there's this claim on
the left there must be a Trump connection both nonsense joy reid speaking of non-sense
implicate somebody else on MSNBC Sham brigade somebody else about and stains death and
alleged cover-up listen so Meanwhile the investigation of at steve death now falls into the
hands of william barr Donald Trump consigliere very an attorney general who refused to recuse
himself on the that sting case despite his Association with the law firm was involved with that
state whose father once hired jeffrey epstein as a teacher with Snyder experience more degree
and whose prime directive is to protect Donald Trump no matter what and other words we may
never get the answers to how Jeffrey Epstein was allowed to die and deprive all those victims of
the opportunity for Justice okay I think that's outrageous bill barr is somebody honestly with
impeccable background it's why he was confirmed as attorney general and he is not Donald
Trump can secure the area that was Michael collins who's currently imprisoned himself I hope I
will be closely monitored now say the this is absurd and and is claiming that build bar was
responsible for hiring jeffrey have seen adult to school or bill bars father was a Tom are higher
look it's a mystery I've built bar does not have a call I didn't know but build are very much has a
college degree in law school Center said Jeff Ramsay don't have a college degree and you get a
job teaching mathematics and a very elite prep school in Manhattan which connects with also a
wealthy and powerful.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 1:13 PM

B_AUG_WASH_17

Jeffrey ups saying they believe their pedophile committed suicide in a put air quotes around
suicide committed suicide its high security Manhattan jail cell a lot of people just flat out and do
not believe jeffrey upstage on Friday started to name some names in and look he had some of
the richest most powerful people on Earth as part of what appeared to be a sex ring but on on
Friday a woman who said she was 14 years old when it abstained was using her for sex and
then trading out to other high profile high powered people she said the Prince Bandar was one
of the people she was forced to have sex with and when you have somebody meaning of state
whose starting to roll over ought to do with the Royal family bill clinton took 27 flights on this
guys playing Donald Trump was seen at a fund-raiser with them the you're talking about some
of the most powerful people bond earn and when one of them is the clintons because there are
is Hey mom the best of clinton associate body count that's been circulating for lung lung people
move mysteriously died you had accidents and meet know vince foster committed suicide
there's just a long list of people who were Associated with the clintons who have not like it over
31

the yards in luck this guy the Royal family pictures with Donald Trump 27 times bill clinton was
on his airplane and if he's starting to roll over of the most powerful people I do not think it was
a suicide and I'm not a big huge conspiracy theory person general but I do not think this was a
suicide everything I've heard is that it's virtually impossible to commit suicide Yeah and now
we're being told today there was no video surveillance so we don't have any video of how he
committed suicide because you don't have any shoe laces the a little outfit the jail uniform you
where could never support the weight of hanging the think Sir paper and for the say Murray
isn't it there are no bars in this jail cell it's just locker room there's no light fixture so everyone's
wondering how in the world you don't need a lot of height to hang yourself you Robin Williams
reportedly paying himself From adored gop you don't have to have that much but this guy just
starts to roll over and be the more you hear about this person is sorry wound and glad he's
dead but his victims they didn't want him gap that is the easy way out and considering he was
living this billionaire's life even when he was convicted more than a decade ago and he's put on
and in jail but they said but we'll let you work 5 or 6 days away and he would go to his office
were apparently had arranged some underage sex Chris once again even while he was in jail
while he was serving time for that he reportedly was still engaging in that behavior while
serving his punishment a decade and a half ago a tough second break this AB stain wants to
now he just committed suicide over the weekend he was supposedly on suicide watch we've
got lifted a week ago keen was supposed to have video surveillance in his cell and somehow
mysteriously that didn't happen now does not sound like a suicide two men not stop in me
that's his 5th game then I tell you what and msnb state they just cannot stop comparing the
President to Adolf Hitler.
News Radio KEX
Aug 12 • 1:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_39

Following weekend suicide Jeffrey upstream maybe he's our Turkey reports U.S. attorney
general William bars says it means to be investigated the death by suicide of Jeffrey Epstein
attorney general William bars said will not and the pursuit of anyone who may have been
complicit in his alleged sex trafficking any co-conspirators should not rest easy part told law
enforcement group nor ones victims deserve Justice and varsity was appalled and angry over
what he called the Manhattan Correctional centers failure to secure state we'll get to the
bottom of what happened and there will be accountability when the teen was taken off suicide
watch July 29th we're told bars deputy Jeffrey rosen's signed off aren't pitchers.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 1:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_18

Federal officials are raiding accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein's home on the U.S. Virgin
islands ABC news has observed law enforcement officials from the fbi and customs and border
protection and the NYPD this scene task force better rested up steam last month those officers
and agents were seen at his compound in the U.S. Virgin islands up arriving for what may well
be an extended-stay process evidence ABC there it's risky new York ABC news also learned that

32

sting was taken off suicide watch at a Manhattan jail on July 29th in part at the urging of his
defense attorneys he died By suicide this past weekend.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 2:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_19

even though he is extravagant Jeffrey Epstein died by suicide in Manhattan jail over the
weekend it appears police are not finished with the investigation ABC news says seen the FBI
Customs and border protection and NYPD officers at the dock and on the grounds of little Saint
James Jeffrey Epstein's U.S. Virgin islands compound the agency's match those of the
multiagency task force that work to arrest Epstein last month after he was charged with sex
trafficking federal prosecutors had said the investigation would continue despite Epstein’s
death by suicide in jail.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 3:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_40

attorney general william barr is allowing a third row investigation into what he calls serious
irregularities at a federal lockup in new York city anywhere alleged child sex trafficker Jeffrey
Epstein died by apparent suicide just Clark of members stationed W WNO has details attorney
general William bara brought up that seems staff while giving the keynote speech at the
National Fraternal order of police conference in new Orleans at steam was found unresponsive
in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center on Saturday sources say he was no longer
getting special observation check-ins every 30 minutes bar says he's appalled and angry that
team was not adequately sick here we are now learning a serious irregularities at this facility
they're deeply concerning and demanded a thorough investigation Martha of the federal
criminal case will continue against anyone suspected of being complicit in the wealthy investors
alleged sex trafficking scheme.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 12 • 3:10 PM

B_AUG_WASH_20

it's amazing every weekend something happens era was the biggest totally serious point that
we've entered the realm of the absurd in the first minute of the week that's okay I want I have
often said the absurd keeps the insane keeps me same Any rate it really is them we like we
ballots from massive drama to one another massive drama so jeffrey epstein kill himself was
killed by somebody else in either case I think it it takes me a long time to accumulate the heat
the evidence sometimes over years to actually say something publicly Um that's why I haven't
gotten in trouble because I think very long and hard before say something publicly won the toss
they ask you say is it would look up the actual Dostoyevsky quote you are referring to that it cut
a society can be measured by it in the treatment of prisoners something to that effect nobody
really cares thought nobody that that's sick cility overstate ruth who most people don't care
about prisons when it when I remember when it California had ae proposition for spending
more money to build prisons was defeated spend money on prisons all may give me a break we
33

got we got innocent people we got to spend money and and that was by the way that was right
and left incidentally this is a rare a rare issue where there's very little right or left to divide like
I'll give an example solitary confinement solitary confinement should unite left and right me but
it doesn't change my view of the left than merely stating that up if there is something on which
there can be agreement then great solitary confinement as a form of torture they are rare rare
rare times when it it should be used but it is torture I consider it a more under the category of
torture than I do waterboarding to give an example we're pulling his terror and this is torture
people lose their minds in solitary confinement the me picking people solitary confinement if
there's a cockroach in in their shells they saw talking to the Koch group so there's an example
there's a think is much too much use of it why is it why was this guy up steam why was he in
solitary confinement and don't tell me all they were afraid that somebody would kill they
weren't that afraid anyway he had a roommate he had a cellmate I wanted to take this slowly
away so later he emailed that the victim was his cellmate could prevent the 8 suicide could
prevent the 8th man itself from going into depression it is it is in the East and society's interest
that he not commit suicide I'm not saying he did commit suicide that 8 even that the utterly
incompetent prison system doesn't even know if he committed suicide and what does this
mean I don't know maybe this is a legit answer the coroner needs more information you don't
even understand what that means more information he had his body while more information
you need audience it maybe he ingested something that would be a need for more information
to In an autopsy for with regard to not put these substances like for his faith in time so I don't
know I just know the country is rightly indignant the right and left that such utter incompetence
is in our prisons but it's it's it's worst did you get a dusting of keycorp pensions you probably
Nelson Mandela all really it's not just the thing that's interesting okay anyway I also say if it isn't
Dostoyevsky work I will say that it is a statement about a society how its prisons who are
running it is because it's very tempting to look away when you have so many bad people in
prison that it is commonly for men to be raped by other men imprisoned this is this is mind
boggling my view of America doesn't allow for for such things so when you hear that next time
was spent on prisons maybe you can think of this they kept they keep saying well we are
understaffed and then you do people working in the prisons were overworked was over time so
they didn't moderate but the whole or just forgetting that Amin why didn't have a roommate
with a cellmate why was that guy removed the over recent lose perspective maybe beyond his
last so we should all wait for of the sky helped him commit suicide in the first attempt by the
way if there is an attempt to have a 24 7 watch if you think somebody will commit suicide it
that you would you would you would watch to say no okay they don't write good guy they say
they don't because they didn't have the money his new York times opted for jail suicide but the
way he does they don't know so what kind of headline is a this jeffrey upstream it was left
alone enough closely monitored Mr. Epps was supposed to have been checked by the two
guards in the protective housing and unit every 30 minutes but that procedure was not
followed time night in addition because Mr. up steam mayor tried to commit suicide 3 weeks
earlier he was supposed to have another inmate in his cell 3 official said but the jail recently
transferred his cellmate allow Mr. of seem to be housed alone decision had also violated the jail
procedures me if they violate procedures without such Ha Ha ie recognition figures can you
imagine of the violation of procedures wins atypical prisoner I deeply believe in punishment but
I deeply believe in capital punishment we should throw it's always worth noting with these
34

mass murderers that the it is he right we conservatives all want to walk these mass murderers
executed it's the left that those walked of executed just just thought I would note that the law
enforcement official with knowledge of the investigation said that when the decision was made
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 3:13 PM

B_AUG_WASH_21

attorney general William Barr us said that in the event the death of Jeffrey Epstein and have
trouble talk about this guy without getting curious it was a failure on the part of the detention
center in new York city I was called and indeed the whole Department lunch and frankly angry
to learn of the am CC's failure to adequately secured the prisoner we're now learning serious
irregularities at this facility they were deeply concerning and demanded a thorough and best
days so Lisa bloom his lawyers represent some of the team's victims in a civil case against the at
18 States now they cannot prosecute Eckstine directly you want Jeffrey Epstein to face Justice
we won that day when he would be held accountable he never apologized to them he never
tried to make amends he fought them every step of the way they tried to get Justice I think this
is Jeffrey have seems final way of evading Justice so us read through the list of things going on
here I like I am just the fall old with a number of questions that exist on this and I might I just
try to think like an attorney reporter I'm trying to be level-headed here is just so much we have
a camera footage he was not monitor half hour every half hour and look at this and it is very
difficult for me to imagine how there is trust built this you did this you know that this was
allowed to happen and the serious questions raised by there's serious and I'm left before I hope
that this was allowed to occur I'm not in any way the Pope Yeah anyway shocked and I'm not in
any way I think that there's a conspiracy theory here Yeah it's I don't know I mean sometimes it
is so frustrating you 9 11 the moon landing note announcing staff why can't people ever look at
this simplest possible Let's formation find that actually works from being made which is blaming
the bourne movies because I'm getting really Fed up with this idea this the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in in new York this is the place that one year ago I don't know why
everyone forgets about this had like a multiday power outage this is one of the most part run
Correctional centers in the world I am the United States in the world Hold an early pit prisoners
freezing because they could not get them heat in the center of the mobile most densely
populated and wealthiest cities in the world so you got that as the backdrop here and then
you've got have seen death how many people died in prison last year United States we don't
know you know why we don't know because the Trump administration started redacting
Department of Justice statistics regarding his death which have been reported for eons we
don't win anymore but we do know a 2016 when it was 372 people died in prison now Let's
look Let's add on to that the number of people who actually injure themselves to the point of
death in prison but died in a hospital prison don't count that as a suicide even though it was an
attempted suicide Let's tack on another 100 on that prison suicides jail suicide state at the state
level and federal level the local level are rampant and been going up year after year after year
the said Jeffrey Epstein this is everyone in prison and anyone who spent time there ask them if
they put people on suicide watch that's effective anywhere they don't so this guy had an
opportunity to kill himself and killed himself and story out of that story and the story regarding
all the victims that's still be pushed through but this idea that we don't know what happened at
35

this facility saw how was like now agree Justice how many times the prom dresses looked at
this place Yeah this is absolutely crazy does seem like they're not doing things right they never
half of what I get it is Mike and candidacies braking it like everything you said makes complete
sense complete sense as reading about the overtime asian about keep one of their shift as
freeing up people doing jobs that they don't normally do they're trained to do but they don't do
it and this is where I guess this is where I am I want to get their response to unite because I
would feel like the management it's okay listen we've got the highest profile federal prisoner in
maybe the world right or not a prison of the prisoner may be in the world he's in our facility he
is apparently tried to commit suicide wants can we please put the best most rested people
August I guess I just think the leadership of this place would say for God's sake we set screw ups
don't screw this up and then just pragmatically this I guess I've said this would be the same
leadership said Let's let burglars first degree burglary offenders freeze to death in our in our jail
what framework is going to penetrate them lying lying and this is also a guy this guy is actually
in a weird way kind of lower suicide threat to discipline him that he had tens of millions of
dollars in the bank the best attorneys available now we've got out of this I doubt it and maybe
he finally saw the writing on the wall it's been on the wall for what the last two years but but
not the last missing management has turned a blind eye to rampant agreed his treatment of
prisoners or ever okay I hope that is going to settle in people's minds is what I saw I was
stunned and like us to read about this place police falling apart which raises another question
for me why power Yes I get it it's jurisdictional why Barra and like in in in adolescent care
facilities there put facilities in the open 25 years they've never had a suicide of kids brought in
advance or suicidal because they set a caregiver next to them 24 7 for a month they're not out
cited anybody for a month so why there is so frustrating and out was one of the things you said
this can't stop you can't be guarded after these gate you know what ultimate hearing enough of
enablers it mean that was how the right name Bush will get there you'll be hearing a lot about
how there's a lot of people I thought of was mayhem too bad anthony bourdain guy because
find casting movie I tried to convince anthony bourdain to play jeffrey I think they look almost
exactly like he never fancied himself an actor that probably would work and whether george
clooney that if your momma talking and do it however the D.C. the tour that's my back Up
because you know why dejesus for these women money and a movie you know why because
you think you're going to see former President bill clinton but triumph know you are not
President Donald Trump attorney Alan Dershowitz and Prince Andrew that yet when you're
talking about the other day no I intended to help me get this Porto's Andrew Hill won't be
attorney general all william barr course that can start know he did say this prison was terrible
that he was and you're never gonna see Woody Allen it so Let's go Let's go down from the start
what I don't I'm not going to see that I hope it lasts I great you can put some weight of all the
wood on the ice but scott Walker but what about the the woman I'm forgetting her name a
move and it's gone mad money athlete who apparently was a designated pam right right about
that he was modeling know I seriously how are you Yeah Yeah is promising these girls education
and opportunity and things like that but you're talking about these people that either assaulted
or raped underage girls are you supporting and encouraging their exploitation they will not be
held accountable for their actions now you know they may be held accountable for every future
endeavor they make you go ahead and ask bill cosby's state Michael jackson's estate R Kelly's
the R Kelly's problem he's in right now which is a situation that lasted over decades that now he
36

finds himself fighting you talk about their money window lane they go caller J.C. what's going
on that is what's going on the amount of evidence and living victims and the star power already
in this story makes it interesting.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 3:15 PM

B_AUG_WASH_22

The attorney general of the U.S. built bar expressing anger over the apparent suicide of accused
sex trafficker jeffrey epstein and sent a warning to anyone complicit and now the fbi is
investigating a teen's death ABC aired pictures joining us on the company is fine if anybody had
any questions about whether this case would end with the wealthy financers death it seems
like raids today and the fbi investigation are suggesting otherwise aaron well it certainly doesn't
help that the information has not been fully in put out there the medical examiner's office said
the autopsy is complete but they weren't going to release information because they want to
wait for the investigation to come out and so who knows what that could be the attorney
general has said that this raises some serious questions that need to be be answered but by all
accounts to be the authorities continue to believe that jeffrey esteemed death by suicide was
from hanging happening inside his cell but we know there were a number of shortcomings
should have a cellmate he did not he should have been checked every 30 minutes the guard
into their appointed rounds and we know there have been complaints about chronic
understaffing in overtime shifts and the like but we also believe that there were cameras inside
the cell block but not necessarily trained on up steam selves looked unlikely is the video be
catching him in the act and that may frustrate some of the effort to get to the bottom of what
happened also you know we learned earlier today that there are some raids a raid happening at
his island home look we've said from the come the weekend that the investigation would not
stop with that theme death we have some evidence that today when the same task course of
the Southern district of New York arrest that team back on July 6 showed up by boat and the
U.S. Virgin islands compound and we know that they dared to look for firm additional evidence
of others who may be involved because that team was charged with conspiracy and so he was
the only one name but it takes at least two to tango and conspiracy so the the authorities are
hoping to find evidence of of his inner circle others who possibly could be charged what are you
learning about others who may have helped him in soliciting young girls and women meet
nothing it hasn't helped their minute we're not sure anyone's closer to being charged but it
certainly puts pressure on some of the names that have been mentioned as associates Elan
Maxwell a British social life who's been accused of being effectively Jeffrey Atkins Madam
worse to women or young girls the time into going into having sex with perhaps the boldface
name man that's part of the civil lawsuit but in terms of a criminal charge we're not there yet so
what are the victims saying are they worried that there won't be Justice they are worried there
won't be Justice there's certainly not going to be a prosecution of this of the very person that
they blame for that the source of their lifelong pain that team that may not stop the
investigation but stopped the prosecution and and that's certainly a painful for 4 women who
may have come forward reluctantly more than a decade ago only to have that team be given a
rather sweetheart deal as many beautiful time in 2008 and then they they come forward again
to prosecutors in New York who file charges and now the Fed can't even keep them alive and so
37

they are putting their faith in the federal government may be difficult for some of these victims
even though the attorney general of the United States said the case is important and the
victims deserve their day in court and deserve Justice and the timing of this and really brings up
the CD side of social media doesn't it with root the conspiracy theories and whatnot there are
plenty of conspiracy theories some of them even retweeted by the President of the United
States but no evidence that the lend Creedence to any of them.
AM 860
Aug 12 • 3:16 PM

B_AUG_OREG_41

Accused chose Epstein of soliciting Masako ship from the age 14 and then trying to get her to
undress in front of him this triggered a 13 months long investigation by the florida authorities
which ultimately returned only one Shah oj both Fannie Mae said this tation the prostitution
the next year 2006 the FBI launched its own investigation which in the ball the vendor U.S.
attorney for the southern District of Florida and maybe have heard recently Alex the cost of
that investigation we can talk about why they ended with a plea dl in 2008 with one guilty Chi
oj to pure could approach curating prostitution also go beneath the age of 18 chosen for
Epstein and was sentenced to 18 months in prison wasn't really prison now wasn't he was
allowed to leave jail on would create ace and only spent 12 hours a day in jail the rest of the
time he was O he said for 18 months of the 18 month sentence and then was released from
home arrest which she said of until 2010 that off which point joseph Epstein was full to register
with the authorities as they level 3 sex offender this Yeah he was arrested again this time on
charges of soliciting a prostitute which is really not what he did he did much worse about for
what he really was guilty of sex trafficking and conspiracy to traffic minus of this point his new
code which had been visited multiple times by a built in and was found to have stored all
thousands of pictures of underaged girls and Ben a grand jury indictment alleged that he had
trafficked dozens of pills what else we need to know about jews Epstein his closest affiliates
include President clinton former new mexico governor bill richardson Senate majority leader
George Mitchell Democrat and the lawyer Alan Dershowitz what we need to know about how
he was found dead that he was supposed to be on suicide watch his lawyers have requested he
be removed from suicide watch the inmate who was supposed to be with him in his cell was
somewhere else and that facility was chronically hungry stopped we have audio from attending
general bond his forgiveness need to any general of the night rates is very angry and he is on
the case.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 12 • 3:26 PM

B_AUG_OREG_42

the case against accused sexual predator jeffrey we have seen will not go away even though he
died by suicide though women accusing abstain through their attorneys still plans to seek
Justice and the Department of Justice is also looking into how the suicide was able to happen
one hour from CBS news correspondent Mark Liberman and your work according to the new
York times guards at the jail was supposed to check on him every 30 minutes that procedure
was not followed the night before his death we are now learning of serious irregularities at this
38

facility they are deeply concerning and demanded a thorough investigation sources familiar
with the operation here at the Metropolitan Correctional center.
News Radio KEX
Aug 12 • 3:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_43

our top story accused sex traffickers Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide in his Manhattan jail also
is now being investigated by the fbi and the inspector general a source tells ABC sharing
pictures of the Metropolitan correctional Center has been understaffed leading to low morale
among guards city was founded his cell at 6 30 Saturday morning he had not been on Suisse
Side watch there appears to be no camera trained on his cell so no video catching him in the
act.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Aug 12 • 3:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_23

sources tell abc news that epstein was taken off suicide watch late last month. nearly two
weeks when first found dead in his cell. sources familiar with the decision said they urged the
jail to make the decision. epstein reportedly had to go through at least one mental health
evaluation before getting removed from suicide watch. >> those developments, they will come
hours after attorney general blamed the jail for failure to keep epstein alive. there were serious
regularities at the facility where epstein was found dead over the past weekend. sources tell
abc news the guards were suppose to check on epstein every 30 minutes, but they didn't. in the
hours before discovered saturday morning. >> the metropolitan center has been lower staffed.
they were both reportedly working overtime. since his death, several of epstein's accusers say
they feel cheated out of an opportunity for justice. but the attorney general promises this isn't
the end of the investigation. national correspondent, kristine frazao explains what the justice
department is now tasked with. >> reporter: the victims deserve justice and they will get it. >>
reporter: attorney general william barr is now insisting the apparent suicide of jeffrey epstein
does not mean case closed. >> this case will continue on against anyone who was complicit with
epstein. and any co-conspirator should not rest easy. >> reporter: also revealing new
concerning information about coming out. irregularities where epstein was being held. the
criminal case is now capturing the attention. >> reporter: calling for the house oversite
committee to investigate. calling the need for justice or the right of the public to know why the
child molester got a slap on the wrist referring to his 2008 plea deal. republican senator ben
sass demanding answers. in a letter to barr, the department of justice failed, and saying they
think they might have gotten one last sweetheart deal adding heads must roll. over the
weekend, president trump thrust himself into the conversation. retweeting the conspiracy
theory, the clinton's may be involved in his death, which they denied. this as new york city
mayor and presidential candidate bill dobras owe is calling into question president trump's
association with epstein. >> he's trump's friend. what is trump hiding? that's the question. >>
reporter: looking ahead the fbi and inspector general here at the department of justice will
investigate how and why epstein died. meanwhile we'll now look into epstein's far reaching
finances and who may have helped him along the way. at the department of justice, kristine
39

frazao. >> jeffrey epstein's estate will likely be hit with multiple lawsuits in the next few days
and weeks. that's because a new state law takes effect in new york on wednesday. it gives
people a one-year window to sue for sex abuse damages regardless of when the alleged act
took place.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Aug 12 • 3:35 PM

B_AUG_WASH_24

Announcer: jeffrey epstein found dead in his prison cell from apparent suicide by hanging and
now that we know he'd been receiving death threatsrom fellow inmates for weeks, conspiracy
theories are flying. >> something's really weird, man. announcer: let's go with it. charles: jeffrey
epstein was getting a lot of death threats from other inmates in prison in manhattan. the
inmates were not only giving him death threats but extorting him. we're told they would say to
him, put money in our commissary account or else. harvey: before that first suicide attempt on
july 23, so almost from the git-go, he was getting threats. which is very common for rich people
in prison. announcer: and it's common to place them on watch 24/7. charles: they were
supposed to be watching him and there was more than 30 minutes passed before the guards
went to check on him at the time when he killed himself. if he killed himself. announcer: and
that's the question. no video surveillance in his cell, taken off suicide watch and no guards
around. something is fishy. >> are we saying to let him kill himself or somebody killed him?
harvey: that's why the medical examiner didn't reach a cause of death because they need to
determine -- i'm told the board of prisons knows exactly what happened. they're just not
saying. >> who wanted him to commit suicide? who's behind this conspiracy? >> lots of people.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 12 • 3:54 PM

B_AUG_OREG_44

Jeffrey Epstein's defense lawyers had requested abstain be taken off suicide watch prior to his
death in jail and a new rule by the Trump administration could deny green cards to immigrants
use some public services will have these stories and much more in the 5 things you need to
know today the original portion up well it's up for sale will have that story some interesting
signs advertising for a very specific type of stripper never ending pasta Bowl or maybe pass
would you choose see positive Dave you said boy that would be a big one it would be a big one
stick with us we're going to talk about here trafficking of course your forecast 10 minutes
nonstop news is next you love is happening now new year's eve to this day connected with bad
news what they want David so portland and he excelled dot-com it's 4 o'clock Trump
administration wants to withhold Green card from immigrants on public assistance it
encourages self-reliance and self-sufficiency attorney general react to be obscene suicide you
get to the bottom of what happened a friend of the gate the shooter is under arrest he had
purchased body armor and firearms accessories this is the CBS world news roundup late
additions sponsored by the capital one you know card the Trump administration will starting in
mid-October enforce rules on would be immigrants requiring they be self-sufficient and not on
public assistance CBS's Stephen port know to get a green card going forward hundreds of
thousands of immigrants here illegally on visas would have each prove they're not likely to
40

become public charge receiving benefits could be disqualified Ken Cuccinelli as acting head of
U.S. citizenship and immigration services President Trump's administration is reinforcing ideals
of self-sufficiency and personal responsibility Cuccinelli shrugs off the concerns of advocates
who worry the rule will discourage immigrant parents from applying for benefits for U.S. citizen
children Stephen Portnoy CBS news the White House attorney general william barr is promising
to fully investigate the apparent suicide death of a financier Jeffrey Epstein in New York City
prison where he is being held on sex trafficking charges now learning of serious irregularities at
this facility they're deeply concerning and demand a thorough investigation very little has been
said about how it steamed died correspondent linking the medical examiner's office for an
autopsy on Epstein's body yesterday but says the waiting for more information before drawing
any conclusions source tells CBS news that and steve hang himself inside a jail cell here at the
Correctional facility.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 6:56 PM

B_AUG_OREG_45

the House Judiciary committee has announced it's launching a bipartisan investigation into the
circumstances of Jeffrey Epstein's death as NPR's tim mack reports chairman Jerry Nadler and
ranking Republican Doug Collins have written to the Bureau of prisons asking for answers about
Epstein's apparent suicide over the weekend the letter is a collaboration between Democrats
and Republicans on a contentious House committee he directs _twenty_ _three_ questions to
the acting director of the Bureau of prisons the two lawmakers said the apparent suicide shows
quote efficiencies in inmate protocol and has allowed the deceased ultimately evade facing
Justice the committee demanded information about the Bureau of prisons suicide Prevention
polls he's resources and staffing it also request information specific to have seen such as how
he is treated by the agency the details of individual Correctional officers responsible for
monitoring him and whether there was video surveillance in and around the inmate's cell the
committee is asking that ensued be provided by August 21st.
KONG-SEA
Aug 12 • 7:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_25

Fbi agents conducted raids today on jeffrey epstein's private island in the caribbean. arriving on
speedboats in the search for evidence after epstein took his own life while in federal custody.
meanwhile mystery surrounds the weekend's death. steven fabian has the latest. >> reporter:
jeffrey epstein's mansion in manhattan was a hive activity today. amid uproar over his suicide
behind bars. and a dozen february agents carried out a lightning raid today on epstein's private
island in the caribbean. known to locals as pedophile island. the agents can be seen on the
island in golf carts as they search for new evidence. the island is 71 acres and has a main house
and a mysterious temple like structure. the 66-year-old financier hanged himself in his cell at
federal prison in manhattan. less than two weeks after being taken off suicide watch. >> heads
are going to roll in one way or another. >> reporter: this is the moment he was rushed to the
hospital saturday as pair methodics worked to re-- as paramedics worked to revive him.
cameron says he is flabbergasted epstein was taken off suicide watch. >> he receives clothing
41

items like t-shirts and bed sheets and that kind of thing. so he had all the tools needed to
hihimself. it would have been an easy thing to accomplish. >> reporter: and surveillance
cameras are likely to be of much help to investigators. >> there will not be any camera footage
that shows what was inside that cell. >> reporter: epstein was in a special unit because he was
such a high profile prisoner and the target of other inmates. he was supposed to have a cell
mate and a guard was supposed to check on him every 30 minutes. but published reports say
he was alone inside his cell and no guards checked on him for several hours before they found
the body. attorney general bill barr spoke out about epstein's suicide today. >> i was appalled
and indeed the whole department was and frankly angry. >> reporter: epstein's death is
spawning a slew of conspiracy theories. >> why didn't the justice department see this coming?
why didn't the white house see this coming? how did this happen? >> reporter: actor alek
baldwin tweeted the russians killed epstein. they are in charge of everything now. now
president trump a former friend of epstein is taking heat today for retweeting a video by
comedianerness k. williams. targeting bill and hillary clinton and applying they are involved in
epstein's death. >> people that have information on the clinton's end up dead. and they usually
die from suicide.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 7:03 PM

B_AUG_WASH_26

the big news that everybody is talking about over the weekend authorities found the body of
accused sexual predator Jeffrey Epstein dead in his prison cell in new York he cause for death is
reportedly suicidal I don't think that's been made official yet by the authorities in charge there
after pleading not guilty her organizing sex trafficking ring of underage girls steen was sent to
be held in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in new York state and he was put on suicide
watch pretty early into his day because they found marks we remember that story G around his
neck he's in the fetal position it was only after being recently taken off of suicide watch it seems
steve went through with his plan now while we can all agree that he hardly deserved any better
than God have seen death has caused a decent road block for prosecutors as they're trying to
pin down the trafficking ring that he seemed to be a huge part of the inner circle of the
trafficking ring is a huge discussion this weekend and so CBS's Holly williams talked about elaine
Maxwell aid British socialite who Epstein Associated himself with in order to recruit young
when documents unsealed on Friday contain allegations that delaying Maxwell played quite
important role in Jeffrey it steams Sexual abuse ring directing an underage girl to have sex with
and steen and of is Maxwell strenuously denies those allegations Jaczko role is an attorney who
has represented several alleged victims of Jeffrey Epstein who are multiple victims who claim
that juicing and Maxwell was Hey personal purchases and in recruiting them for jeffrey epstein
and there are allegations that that Mr. Maxwell was an active participant in the sexual abuse
Elaine Maxwell has been described as it steamed ex-girlfriend and assistant he's best friend
according to its theme and socialize who helped connect team with the wealthy and famous its
pastes she even founded as charitable environmental group and Maxwell also been described
as Madame X stayed with reportedly able to shield his alleged co-conspirators from prosecution
with a 2007 a plea deal jex Corollas say that included Alain Maxwell when Hannah on nonprosecution agreement is entered into do that grants immunity to choosing Maxwell and other
42

named and unnamed co-conspirators for unspecified crimes that just doesn't make any sense
at all according Williams Maxwell was far from the only conspirator in this case another famous
brief court dropping the scandal is Prince Andrew the unsealed documents were paid
allegations that Max slow traffic to free to Prince fan true though that claim was previously
dismissed by a judge in the U.S. and struck from the record court a lot of names have been
thrown around we'll see how much information is released in the next week about this
particular ring and people took advantage of it but one of the hoop there are two things to me
that that I think are really important and one is the fact that although jeffrey epstein is dead
now he is not going to be held personally liable for the sex trafficking charge but there are
these conspiracy charges this is a much bigger things than him himself and his estate is going to
be liable for this so you may not be able to get him personally and criminal court but his victims
are able to take legal action in civil court and we're definitely going to see that happening I'm
the other being how this guy under the watch n.a. n.a. high-security facility it killed himself I
called some experts did Yeah you're not experts in medium talk about experts who have been
inside that prison okay right the told me how it goes that far just first and foremost there's a
Green light don't sex offenders she I Yeah I have that right away I think we've all heard that part
of and I said OK cool he said now there's two guards to floor and talk about it is to guard Louis
how he goes down they talked about how that the I mean you saw the report saying that you
know they and sting was taken off suicide watch riot because of of man-hours and everything
and how they need to make sure because somebody guard overworked and all that look he was
technically off during that time now back to what he's he told me that when it comes to Let's
just say this the regular sex offenders can't forget.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Aug 12 • 7:07 PM

B_AUG_WASH_27

NBC reports the FBI is searching jeffrey Epstein’s home n islands. the disgraced financier
reportedly committed suicide in jail well under indictment for sex trafficking. the epstein
trafficking investigation is not over. attorney general william barr said, quote, any coconspirator should not rest easy. victims deserve justice and they will get it,". virginia roberts
says british socialite julian maxwell recruited and groomed her as a sex slave for rich and
famous men including epstein. maxwell denies wrongdoing.
AM 860
Aug 12 • 7:11 PM

B_AUG_OREG_46

jeffrey epstein is dead that's what we also know we all vote okay you heard the conspiracy
theories he's not right for me Yes I have I not dead he's smiling with bill clinton both sides that's
what happened but job you love the media reported an apparent suicide and that really is the
proper terminology reporting this story because if the autopsy is in yet and corner doesn't say
Yes it was a suicide then you can say was a suicide going know report was a bedsheet and
getting was on suicide watch before he wasn't that day get to ask the question why was he on
suicide watch that day why why wasn't there a camera inside the cell why wasn't there a
cellmate what check number 3 minutes for very simple just simple questions that should be
43

answered and legacies lawyers asked for him to be taken off suicide watch really Yes that was
one report that us earlier today has long wanted that I don't know that that begs the question
why would his lawyers not want him on suicide watch which would give the Metro protection
and plus he was suicidal and he really was beaten up by somebody in and interviews by
somebody else in the prison one now you have to watch you put in solitary to where he can be
harming himself if there are way too many holes in the story way too many and it's not okay
given that the actual wrap up of of those cards that place from ABC7 attorney general William
bars said Monday there were serious irregularities the federal jail jeffrey epstein took his life as
he awaited trial on charges he sexually abused underage girls the 66 year-old evidence here
was found Saturday morning in his cell the chronically shortstop Metropolitan Correctional
center unit known for holding the Tories prisoners under extremely tight security I was appalled
and indeed the whole Department was frankly angry to learn the MCC failure to adequately
secure this prisoner Mara said a police conference in new Orleans we're now learning of serious
irregularities this facility they're deeply concerning and demand a thorough investigation the fbi
and the office of inspector general are doing just that he added we will get to the bottom of
what happened and there will be accountability barge not provide specific details of an
investigation by the fbi and the Justice Department inspectors general are continuing a bar also
issued a Stern warning saying the case was far from over saying anyone who may have
conspired with abstain should not rest easy the medical examiner called a top say Eckstine
inconclusive sources said he hanged himself guards were supposed to check on abstain every
30 minutes this sell Metropolitan Correctional center ever sources say occurred call was not
followed the hours leading up to his death a source told ABC News bar is livid and determined
to get to the bottom of this I was appalled to learn Jeffrey Epstein was found dead early this
morning from an apparent suicide in federal custody bars said the statement the stretch teen's
death raises serious questions that must be answered in addition to the F.B.I.'s investigation
had consulted with the inspector general whose opening an investigation into the
circumstances of Mr. Epstein's death Epstein was in the facility special housing unit and was on
suicide watch two weeks ago he was found unconscious in a cell with apparent self-inflicted
marks on his neck this those that watch ended before his death Saturday there are many
conspiracy theories and questions out why and how this was allowed to happen don't open the
phone lines are To conspiracy theories don't do that for lunch to clinton body count I mean
obviously a bunch of people drop dead around the clintons they have 30 or 40 years that they
are not making anything up there are lists available everywhere on the Internet of the people
who no longer live who worked with 30 year or around the clintons so that there's there's no
argument there but to call and said Here's the do it I've asked and are you buying the official
story though I think it's a fair question are you buying the official story hang himself the guards
all dropped the ball no cameras were working off suicide watch Yeah we get a machine there
what's the big deal you by the official story we just skeptical person watch truth at least test the
say this is sketchy story dude this is not adding up to two was like kt story I really don't want a
bunch of theories on what happened but isn't that easily explainable that they just suck at a
facility.

44

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 7:15 PM

B_AUG_WASH_28

leading cause of death and U.S. jails is it's suicide there are many factors including poor staffing
inadequate mental health treatment and lack of training what's going on the scene when
inmates are placed on suicide watch at risk it behind bars steps conversation tomorrow night at
midnight support 4k you load but it comes from the clearing depression hopelessness anxiety
and substance abuse.
KLSR (FOX)
Aug 12 • 7:19 PM

B_AUG_OREG_47

the apparent suicide of jeffrey epstein will not stop the investigation into the trafficking charges
that he faced. that is according to atty. gen. william barr who is looking in how he died, while on
custody. marc liverman has the very latest. >> reporter: atty. gen. william barr is promising
investigation into jeffrey epstein's alleged sex trafficking ring is far from over. despite his
apparent suicide. >> let me assure you that this case will continue on against anyone who was
complicit. any co-conspirators should not rest easy. >> reporter: the justice department is also
investigating how the 66-year- old disgraced financier died. less than three weeks after
surviving a previous apparent suicide attempt. >> will get to the bottom of what happened. >>
reporter: one source tells us he hung himself, but the medical examiner has not yet released
results of the autopsy he. according to the new york times, guards at the jail were supposed to
check on him every 30 minutes, but the procedure was not followed the night before his death.
>> we are now learning of series irregularities at this facility, that are deeply concerning. and
demand a thorough investigation. >> reporter: sources familiar with the operations here at the
correctional center say guards were working extreme overtime shifts to make up for staffing
shortages. his death follows the unsealing of more than 2000 pages of documents. many
containing graphic allegations against him and allegations that his close friend, elaine maxwell,
found teenage girls for him and his friends. >> there are allegations that ms. maxwell was an
active participant in the sexual abuse. >> reporter: she denies the allegations.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 7:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_29

Attorney General william barr demanding answers wants to know why q sex trafficker Jeffrey
Epstein was taken off suicide watch just days before he took his life in a jail cell in a federal
Correctional facility in new York city the CBC's Tom thomas tells us the Justice Department we
have already known it was going to happen his defense attorneys argue that be taken off
suicide watch list were also told that and still under way at least more than one psychological
evaluation and even though attorney general bar was outraged today were told his deputy
attorney general was informed that he was coming off suicide watch list.

45

AM 860
Aug 12 • 7:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_48

I don't know that any of this happened you go again and say Hey if this person just ends up
being suicide did maybe get a lighter sentence maybe dang get this is really really good food for
weakening who knows there could be any number of things going I get it but at the same time
I've always wondered why doesn't somebody say something in cases like this are cases like 9 11
9 11 was an inside job America did that that's the claim by some for idiots I didn't want a
person who agrees with you that was affiliated with or connected to the eventually found deep
throat was from the from the next two years we will eventually find out what we're not hearing
anything here appear to be here Let's get him and for argument's sake Let's just saying all the
conspiracy theories out there about the heat clinton and people look for a gig with them all the
way back to arkansas in the I D A.D. I I am going to get only know I learn a lot of questionable
will decide if you want to call it that suicide dive into it we say now Yes absolutely days had run
happy future inside me a couple questions officers retired current and Doug good insight I can
see somebody serving a life sentence getting something easier some better food maybe better
better better to get to that would you have to run entirely opting to hound every level of the
hierarchy and the President I don't think everybody can be quite like that it's interesting to me
in the 9th for one pack still packs a cow we come back in a canal County noted now can see the
guy guy writing these guys screwed up County arizona Sheriff Mark Lamb is going be the
program for those watching on television the video starts out just fine later his voice in his
mouth off the information just as good keep it here both the fbi and Justice Department are
investigating the death of billionaire Jeffrey Epstein accused of sex trafficking involving a
teenage girls Correspondent athena Jones has his apparent suicide comes less than 24 hours
after over 1000 pages of documents containing more disturbing sex trafficking allegations
against had steam were unsealed in a related lawsuit one of his alleged victims filed against one
of his associates.
News Radio KEX
Aug 12 • 7:35 PM

B_AUG_OREG_49

Hey welcome to the program my pleasure here glenn beck finely on the Olympic program it is a
men's room packed is here with us to talk about they talk about these Point we don't even
know I think they did not talk suicide ups over the weekend Yeah and they have determined
that they can determine the cause of death yet of course I mean why would it not going to go
Dan wait you have got an autopsy a guy who had to harm himself right everyone else could
have done Yeah you can't determine the cause of death come on now what I heard was that
they're releasing it with the fbi the fbi report so it's not just the well I a minute I listened to it
was a daily or a listen to I listen to a couple of things from the left every morning Liz maybe
came from maybe and pr this came from npr that the autopsy was performed and they have to
determine can determine the cause of death yet I hate it I couldn't help but notice this was a
guy who was a suicide watch Yeah but it had been taken off of it they do have monitors the see
what's going on in this Yeah they were all pointed outside the cells I mean that's where all the
action is right is just outside of the jail cell the guards were supposed to be a check King on
46

them every 15 minutes at home but didn't they were just tired and he was supposed to be
wearing a suicide and proof that jacket it but wasn't cool a bunch of amazing coincidence is
bozo and then the guy just out and the conveniently hang himself when there's nothing to hang
yourself from a fairly high and win here well hillary clinton was there hillary was there in the
bottom bunk Yeah really matches the bottom bunk that has I was that on npr do that I don't
know which one that was okay but Yeah she was in about a month pretty sure will have only
been able to get to somewhere between 40 n-400 people so that they can get the jeffrey Lord
what do you think this hearing that Sandy Burger even though he's dead somehow or other got
in and was trying to smuggle jeffrey have steen outing his underpants and it does was any I
mean you would smother Adaptimmune advance would commit suicide if they stuck in the
underpants city Burger I would assume that we don't know that well that's there's a lot of room
there with all the documents and had dinner right fit right but you know you wonder why
there's a conspiracy theory on this one Oh come on I don't know this is what happens when you
constantly lie to the American people come audiences the you is these were there the parents
of most conspiracy theory so we don't know what happened here happened no idea it's funny
though the media is blaming the right approach to jump into these conspiracy theories in part
this is because Trump to retweet thing but the left is a conspiracy theories going on forever
they just said 3 weeks ago but guy was a it was likely be on a hit list Bowl he you down I mean
who doesn't think that is possible you have a guy who everyone is saying you know everyone
including the Pope had Rice sacks good when you line up of go there's a million people want
the guy dead by the way we haven't seen the pope's name yet on that law Yeah I think you had
not only give people like clinton and and a lot of figures on the left you also have a Trump also
been thrown into the on land their get of John glenn you have also been multiple billionaires
not not necessarily as a partisan figure out to you by then are on this list it's really weird.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 8:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_30

attorney general william barr plans to move forward despite alleged sex trafficker Jeffrey
Epstein's that ABC time on earlier today U.S. attorney Jay year-old william barr seeing he's
appalled by the Let me they are deeply concerning and demanded a failure of the jail staff we
are now learning of serious irregularities at thorough investigation a source telling ABC news
this for so guards at the Metropolitan Correctional Center broke protocol but not checking on
him every 3 minutes and Epstein was taken off suicide watch just 6 days after being found
unresponsive with marks on his neck Nauert is authorities are looking very closely at British
socialite L.A. Maxwell longtime associate of that steam who may have ties to recurring young
girls recruiting those girls the financier.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 12 • 9:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_50

>> reporter: today, unexpected guests showed up on jeffrey epstein's private caribbean island a
team of fbi agents raided the luxury compound by the attorney general vowed not to let up on
the investigation. >> let me assure you that this case will continue on against anyone who was
47

complicit with epstein. >> reporter: barr also fiercely criticized the federal jail where epstein
was being held >> we are now learning of serious irregularities at this facility that are deeply
concerning >> reporter: the 66-year-old was discovered close to death early saturday morning
according to an administration official familiar with the facts, epstein had not been checked on
for a number of hours. a violation of protocol which requires checks roughly every half hour.
today, the prison union telling nbc news the jail is understaffed, officers are overworked on july
23rd, epstein was put on suicide watch after being found injured with marks around his neck,
triggering 24/7 monitoring according to multiple law enforcement sources. but on or about july
29th, the suicide watch was dropped. a person familiar with the case tells nbc news on august
9th, the day before his death, epstein's cell mate was released and not replaced, another
apparent violation of protocol that same day, epstein's attorneys visited the facility, arguing
that their client was mentally stable and should be moved to a less restrictive unit epstein
wasn't moved he hanged himself the next morning according to multiple law enforcement
sources, making the decision to drop the suicide watch one of many questions in the
investigation. >> quite hard to keep someone alive if they're really intent on killing themselves.
that's why whatever that watch status is becomes very important. >> reporter: epstein may
have slid past the experts, but investigators are still determined the story of his alleged crimes
gets told stephanie gosk, nbc news, new york >> reporter: i'm miguel almaguer the criminal
case against jeffrey epstein never named another defendant, but hours before his death, new
court documents revealed the stunning allegation that the financier and a former member of
his inner circle maxwell ordered a teenage girl to have sex with powerful men. >> it started with
one and trickled into two and so on and so forth >> reporter: virginia roberts dupree claimed
maxwell recruited and groomed her as a sex slave for the rich and famous, including epstein. >>
that is what we, the people, want >> reporter: seen here at the un, maxwell who denied wrong
doing and settled out of court settled out of court with roberts dupree today the attorney
general said any possible accomplice is under investigation. >> any coconspirators should not
rest easy. the victims deserve justice, and they will get it >> reporter: and epstein's accusers are
filing a barrage of civil lawsuits with vast estates in florida, new mexico, new york, and the virgin
islands epstein was said to be worth at least $559 million michelle says she is a victim. >>
money will never make the pain go away, and it will just live on with me forever. >> reporter:
tonight, jeffrey epstein may be dead, but his accusers still want their day in court. miguel
almaguer, nbc news. >> in the wake of epstein's death it didn't take long for people to spread
wild conspiracy theories on social media, among them, president trump, who has a long history
of fuelling unfounded conspiracy claims. we get more from nbc's andrea mitchell >> reporter:
within hours of jeffrey epstein's apparent suicide, president trump was retweeting a conspiracy
theory linking bill clinton to his death. it was immediately picked up by russian state media
going viral. a clinton spokesperson calling the tweet ridiculous and not true, but a top trump
adviser defending him. >> i think the president just wants everything to be investigated >>
reporter: for the president, seizing on a conspiracy theory is part of a pattern he launched his
political career with a false birther claim against president obama. >> he may not have been
born in this country >> reporter: in 2016 there was a bizarre claim that ted cruz's father had
been involved in the kennedy assassination. >> there was a picture of him and crazy lee harvey
oswald having breakfast >> reporter: and after the election the false charge that millions in
california have voted illegally for hillary clinton. >> the same person votes many times. you
48

probably heard of that >> reporter: other examples, that justice scalia may have been
murdered, that vaccines cause autism, and thousands may have been killed in new jersey on
9/11. >> certainly to accuse even by implication a predecessor of a murder conspiracy puts us in
a whole different realm of reality. >> clinton and trump had both known epstein and trump
critics countered by blaming mr. trump online for epstein's death marco rubio chided both
sides for spreading conspiracy but no one did it with as big a megaphone as the president >>>
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 8:58 PM

B_AUG_OREG_51

the House Judiciary committee is investigating the circumstances of Jeffrey Epstein's death at a
federal jail in new York the committee's chairman Jerry nadler and its ranking Republican Doug
collins are asking the Bureau of prisons for details on that Steve's apparent suicide and pierced
in math reports on a letter that Nadler and Collins written to Europe it's the letter is a
collaboration between Democrats and Republicans on a contentious House committee and the
two lawmakers said the apparent suicide shows quote deficiencies in may protocol and has
allowed the deceased ultimately evade facing Justice the committee demanded information
about the Bureau of prisons suicide Prevention policy's resources and staffing it also request
information specific to exceed such as how he is treated by the you can see the details of
individual Correctional officers responsible for monitoring him and whether there was video
surveillance in and around the inmate's cell the committee is asking the answer be provided by
August 21st.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 8:47 PM

B_AUG_WASH_31

Victors he's been covering the Jeffrey Epstein jason day she drove her all the best for the latest
on the best use of the King's death there's been a lot of discussion about whether or not Jeffrey
epstein was on Super side watch we had heard that he had previously tried to commit suicide
for a later hearing he wasn't under suicide watch I know you have some new reporting this
afternoon about maybe why that was what you article he was taken off suicide watch trevor on
July 29th in part at the request of his criminal defense attorneys who were urging the Bureau of
prisons to remove him from suicide watch is restrictive it's a special cell you wear special
clothing you're under constant monitoring it turns out though that may well have saved his life
because after he underwent more than one psychiatric evaluation and after the deputy
attorney general Jeffrey Rosen was informed of the move in fact have steen was taken off
suicide watch and so when he was found in his cell at 6 30 Saturday morning he had not been
on suicide watch there appears to have been no camera trained on his cell so no video catching
him in the act.

49

B_AUG_WASH_32

KPLU-FM (Radio)
Aug 12 • 10:00 PM

Republican Doug collins have written to the Bureau of prisons asking for answers about up
steam apparent suicide over the weekend the letter is a collaboration between Democrats and
Republicans on a contentious House committee and the two lawmakers said the apparent
suicide shows quote the fishing he's an inmate protocol and has allowed the deceased
ultimately evade facing Justice the committee demanded information about the Bureau of
prisons suicide Prevention policy's resources and staffing it also request information specific
apps seem such as how he is treated by you can see the details of individual Correctional
officers responsible for monitoring him and whether there was video surveillance in and around
the inmate's cell the committee is asking the answer be provided by August 21st.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 9:35 PM

B_AUG_WASH_33

disappointment anger disbelief Jeffrey and steams alleged victims are not mourning his death
but they are shaken unless the financier convicted sex offender appears to kill himself over the
weekend while in custody at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan he was
arrested last month on new federal sex trafficking charges that could have put him behind bars
for 45 years speaking Into Marlins earlier today U.S. attorney general william barr addressed
reports the prison guards assigned to Jeffrey Epstein's unit were working extreme overtime in
the lead-up to his staff we are now learning of serious irregularities at this facility they are
deeply concerning and demanded a thorough investigation the fbi and the office of inspector
general are doing just that we will get to the bottom of what happened and there will be
accountability but let me assure you that this case will continue gone against anyone who was
complicit with that I think any co-conspirators should not rest easy the victims deserve Justice
and they will get U.S. attorney general william barr speaking in louisiana today tax Corolla is an
attorney representing 5 unnamed women accusing Jeffrey Epstein of trafficking and sexually
abusing minors reached Mr. school allow in West Palm Beach florida Mr. Soileau what are you
hearing from your clients since the news said Jeffrey Epstein's death broke this weekend well
there are multiple reactions they are worth good point good Yeah it's once again they have
been cheated out of an opportunity to see carefree have speed and older appropriately
accountable by the criminal law for his actions they needed certainly do not believe his passing
but they regret that information that he was that make and tributes to holding of years
responsible for their participation in his crimes may have died with it they're also very hopeful
that as a consequence it is Yeah there may be others who were reluctant to speak earlier who
will now be willing to come forward the question of how this could have happened said Mr.
Epstein was previously on suicide watch but wasn't at the time of his death what's your sense
of how such a high-profile inmate could have taken his own life all I know is what I've been
reading and crest reports and those Crestwood cords raised more questions and then provided
answers get feed whose inexplicable to me that it is such a high-profile individual who had
obviously demonstrated a pump and for key towards suicide in the past could have been the

50

allow me to take his own life with substantial assistance all of those p.m. in a position to have
been responsible for supervising Epstein.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 13 • 3:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_34

as the fbi ramps up its investigation of the apparent suicide of convicted sex predator Jeffrey
Epstein there's a personnel shake-up at the New York jail where he died the wardens been
reassigned and two guards were supposed to be watching up steam we're put on leave CBS's
will break off says the fbi beginning the process of interviewing staff at the jail a source familiar
with the matter tells CBS news that the fbi wants to review video from cameras in the special
housing unit where jeffrey epstein was held it's not clear whether the cameras recorded
individual cells or areas outside their cells it's also not known according to the source whether
the cameras were even working at the time of that teen's death last Saturday morning
investigators also want to look at present documents including overtime records of staff the 66
year-old Latino and ties to prominent politicians and celebrities have been awaiting trial on sex
trafficking charges.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 3:45 PM

B_AUG_WASH_35

Accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide inside Manhattan jails was now being
investigated by the fbi the inspector general the Washington Post's Matt Zapotosky covering
the fallout over Epstein's death and spoke about with almost tailor them cice as you report bar
called this a failure by the federal detention center in new York citing irregularities at that
lockup need to clarify what he meant by irregularities key or not we know a little bit about what
he might have been referring to one of the Strip's team should have been being tracked every
30 minutes if you look in the special housing unit of the federal detention center he had been
checked down and several hours to move may he should have had help make actually had won
until Friday winning Shelby was transferred out and all anyone should have been reassigned it
they worked for whatever reason for those just to be irregularities the bar might have been
referring to go she didn't specify when he made his remarks but Let's talk that we hear bar
another saying they're going to go after co-conspirators but now that seems dead how does the
case proceed can still go after those who might work with them they won't obviously be able to
prosecute Epstein himself and maps disappointing to a lot of victims who were looking forward
to when they faced him in court but in previous court proceedings in civil litigation from
prosecutors and victims of alleged keep going to have a network of people who brought him
young girls who appears so prosecutors and investigators can still explore to what extent those
people might be responsible and possibly church that one suspect like this dies is likely that be
no more documents would be released no one has to protect his privacy anymore I would think
I think you and I think you will start to see victims go after the state you see if I'm going O battle
continue but because there's still an ongoing investigation into other conspirators it's not like
tomorrow we will see all of the search warrants all the court documents there's still an ongoing
investigation so what about our going I think a lot of the most sensitive material for main
51

protector of co-owner Maddie these apps teen's death indicative of a larger problem in
American prisons is hard to keep high-profile prisoners alive or is it something that's just going
on here in manhattan with this one is center if you talk to Union prison Union official like think
they would tell you that this prison may have some particularly acute problems with staffing
and overworked time and guards being overworked but that is an issue you kind of PRISM
federal prison system wide until recently there was a hiring freeze attorney general bill barr
lifted that but there's still kind of you know they haven't filled the pipeline to fill some of these
additional soak prison where the other goal and then everyone should expect they should keep
those Americare alive in this case they get to them and not real failure Matt Zapotosky with us
on coal news from the Washington Post and greed all this coverage online at Washington post
dotcom and that's come most taylor grant size and President Trump is defending his Re tweet
of a conspiracy theory involving jeffrey epstein former President bill clinton he thinks it is fine
he says the conspiracy theory suggests a link between Abd Dean's death and clinton team died
in an apparent suicide this weekend and pressed by reporters in new Jersey Trump asked
whether Clinton never visited Epstein's private Island said the former President so on epstein's
jet many times Trump trouble gunships epstein's jet.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 3:45 PM

B_AUG_OREG_52

we took a look at the news and we said Jeffrey Epstein mean committed suicide and we can
look to each other and said no he didn't I this that this was something else entirely I checked
out with tracy Danes who is editor of uncovered D.C. tracie good to have you back on the
program polite thank for having me back so Yeah this evil pedophile Jeffrey Epstein who
managed to avoid justice for a long long time because of reasons I don't think we fully ferreted
out as to why he got House arrest in 13 months a lot to go to his office in the daytime have sex
with more underage girls allegedly while he was under Super vision and then goes to egos into
federal custody he's actually going to see the inside of a courtroom and and maybe some of the
victims will get some Justice and he is said to have attempted suicide a few weeks ago so they
put him on suicide watch and then amazingly they taken off suicide watch him put him in a
regular cell with a bunk bed a convenient place to Thai news and then he is said to have
committed suicide should we believe that that line I don't think anyone really believe that at
this point because there are still many questions and being that just went wrong at the exact
right time can make that he probably won't get the truth it quickly they like you made a lot of
really good point there especially you know about taking off your back watching if more
information comes out there now the report saying Med with his attorney who asked for that
to happen there's proper procedure that need to be gone through you know the one to meet
with kyle 3 weeks ago and now all of that next award I'm though it really bolling piling into and
situation unfolding and we're not really getting the troops from anywhere the kaine left to fend
for herself here I mean are we are led to believe that the federal corrections system this was
the manhattan you know agency run by the federal Department of Corrections the that there
are so incompetent that they would take a man who had been on suicide watch and I've I've
read plenty of former corrections directors who said one should put somebody on suicide
watch the only reason you take them off is if their circumstances the things that might have
52

made them suicidal change dramatically well none of his situation really changed in the last
couple weeks and yet they taken off suicide watch and then for some reason the guards they're
supposed to do just routine welfare checks every half hour miss for a couple of hours and it's in
that in that little window of time a couple of hours then he allegedly kills himself push yet every
9 minutes there's supposed to be checked Danone and noticed a man with awaiting a decision
on the appeal that he filed Burke released on bail funnyman someone like have the gavel plan
down yet.
AM 860
Aug 13 • 4:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_53

suicide gun control I'm in cades a shake-up at the Manhattan jail where bill in there jeffrey at
stand accused of sex trafficking with teenage girls may have taken his own life respondents he
cas about the Justice Department announced that it had temporarily assigned new warden to
the Metropolitan Correctional center and placed two corrections officers on administrative
leave a spokesperson for the D.O.J. said the temporary change was made pending the outcome
of the inspector general's investigation into seems apparent suicide.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 4:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_36

A shake-up better in new York city federal prison after last weekend's apparent suicide of
accused sex offender Jeffrey Epstein the warden is reassigned to guards been placed on leave
correspond to the breakup the announcement came amid mounting evidence that the
chronically understaffed Metropolitan correctional Center may have bungled its responsibility
to keep the 66 year-old abstain from harming himself he was supposed to have been checked
on by a guard every 30 minutes but investigators learned those checks were done for several
hours top members of Congress want to know what happens cbs's below 90 want know how
this was able to happen they sent a letter to the acting Bureau of prisoners director where they
said esteem suicide demonstrates severe miscarriages of or deficiencies in inmate protocol and
has allowed the deceased ultimately invade facing Justice there is still no word on the autopsy
results.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 4:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_54

Fallout from Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide the wardens been reassigned and two guards
been placed on administrative leave riot police and protesters clashed in Hong Kong 8 half at
both CBS and Viacom reunite the two of these together now it seems like a good idea this is a
CBS world news roundup late addition sponsored by the capital one you know car to a shake-up
that new York city federal prison after last weekend's apparent suicide of accuse sex offender
Jeffrey Epstein the warden is reassigned to guards been placed on leave course on a rake up the
announcement came amid mounting evidence that the chronically understaffed Metropolitan

53

correctional Center may have bungled its The 6 year-old abstain from harming himself he was
responsibility to keep the 6 supposed to have been checked on by a guard every 30 minutes
what investigators learned those checks were done for several hours top members of Congress
want to know what happens cbs's below 90 don't know how this was able to happen they sent
a letter to be acting Bureau of prisoners director Woody said esteem suicide demonstrates
severe miscarriages of or deficiencies in the inmate protocol and has allowed the deceased
ultimately evade facing Justice there's still no word on the autopsy results.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 4:18 PM

B_AUG_OREG_55

the feds pushing their investigation forward since the apparent suicide of accused billionaires
sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein a source familiar with the matter tells CBS news that the fbi is
ready to begin the process of interviewing officers and staff at the Metropolitan Correctional
Center in Manhattan It's part of a federal investigation into the death of Jeffrey Epstein found
dead from an apparent suicide Saturday morning at sources there are at least two or 3 prison
guards who hired defense attorneys CBS's will recall with that update the guards involved in
local warden.
B_AUG_WASH_37

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 4:28 PM

The warden of the federal lockup in new York city where jeffrey epstein was found dead has
been reassigned in pairs miles parks tells us the Justice Department has also benched two other
staffers who were on duty when hedge fund mogul who was facing charges of child sex
trafficking apparently took his own life the warden of the Metropolitan correctional Center in
New York will be temporarily assigned to the Bureau of prisons northeast regional office that's
pending the outcome of investigations that the fbi and the D.O.J. inspector general and Jeffrey
Epstein's death esteem died Saturday as a result of an apparent suicide it does raise questions
including by members of Congress about what suicide Prevention policy the jail had in place
attorney general William bar so investigators have already discovered quote serious
irregularities at the prison where at sea was found dead the her Justice also says the place to
jail staffers on administrative leave until the investigations are complete.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 13 • 4:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_38

Some have called for heads to roll in the wake of jeffrey it seems apparent suicide in a New
York federal jail and a staff shakeup there is underway the word was reassigned and two guards
who were supposed to be watching for Nancy are now on leave WCBS-TV reporter jessica late
though guards were supposed to be checking on the multi-millionaire and make every 30
minutes and reportedly having done so 4 hours I remember ever seeing it already tried to take
his own life 4 weeks earlier but had since been taken off 24 7 suicide watch the 66 year-old was
supposed to face trial beginning in June 2020 for sex trafficking and using dozens of teenage
54

girls authorities are promising that the potential for Justice for those victims does not die
without staying a source told CBS news the fbi is beginning the process of interviewing the jail
staff and wants to review video from the housing unit where Epstein was held.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Aug 13 • 4:40 PM

B_AUG_WASH_39

questions are mounting in the case of jeffrey epstein's apparent suicide. so the new york post
reports the guard on jail where epstein was held on sex trafficking charges was a substitute not
a regular corrections officer this week attorney general william barr criticized the detention
center citing serious irregularities at the lockup. but others blame the trump administration
given the center was reportedly understaffed the government was responsible for maintaining
his security and safety. and that's a failure that needs to be completely investigated to see how
this could have happened while the fbi has raided epstein's property on the virgin islands as it
continues its investigation. and the house judiciary committee has also launched its own
investigation. it's outlined several questions for the bureau of prisons to answer.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Aug 13 • 4:45 PM

B_AUG_OREG_56

Jennifer: investigations continue tonight into the apparent suicide of jeffrey epstein. dan:
epstein was found dead on saturday, having apparently hanged himself in his jail cell in
manhattan. some changes to the federal jail where epstein was held have already occured with
the top official being temporarily reassigned. >> i was appalled and frankly, angry, to learn of
the failure to adequately secure this prisoner. dan: federal agents were seeing around the
grounds of his home. jennifer: one of the most celebrated made an opera faces allegations of
sexual misconduct, and the allegations span several decades. numerous accusers told the
associated press placido domingo tried to pressure them into sexual relationships by dangling
jobs, and sometimes punishing them professionally when they refused his advances. eight
singers and one danger have come forward, they say all of the alleged encounters happened at
venues where domingo waa >> he is almost like god in my business when he would come up
that close and say that, the first thing that goes through your mind is, what? jennifer: domingo
says the claims are inaccurate. a statement the singer released reads, in part, i believed that all
of my interactions and relationships were always welcomed and consensual. people who know
me or who have worked with me know that i am not someone who would intentionally harm,
offend, or embarrass anyone. however, i recognize that the rules and standards by which we
are and should be measured against today are very different than they were in the past.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 13 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_40

The fbi is moving ahead with its investigation of Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide in new York
federal jail launching staff interviews and seeking video from the unit were Epstein was helped
CBS news has exclusive information about what could be an attempted cover-up by guard it's a
55

law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation tells CBS news the corrections
officers may have falsified reports that they checked on jeffrey epstein as required by protocol
as steve was taken off suicide watch about one week after an apparent attempt to hang himself
on July 23rd the source tells CBS news and steen cellmate at the Metropolitan Correctional
Center posted bail leaving and steam alone in his cell last Friday the day before he died another
source familiar with the investigation tells CBS news it appears and steve had been dead one to
two hours before he was found.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_41

Changes in leadership following the death of accused of sex trafficker jeff steen to to staff
members of MCC Manhattan assigned to the special housing unit where Jeffrey Epstein died by
suicide early Saturday have now been placed on administrative leave but warden has been
reassigned and the Justice Department named a new acting award disciplinary measures comes
3 days after Epstein used a bedsheet we're now told to hang himself inside his cell.
KDRV (ABC)
Aug 13 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_57

the federal investigation into jeffrey epstein is continuing after his death. federal officials were
seen on his private caribbean island monday. an f-b-i spokeswoman confirmed the agents'
presence in the Virgin Islands was related to epstein. the accused sex trafficking ringleader died
saturday in a new york jail cell in an apparent suicide. the u-s attorney's office has suggested it
will pursue conspiracy charges against epstein. that would allow them to charge anyone else
involved in the scheme. some of his accusers say the ring involved high-profile political figures.
KOBI
Aug 13 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_58

an alturas man facing murder charges was found dead in his cell at the modoc county jail
saturday. 61-year-old robert allen vogee was arrested in february of 20-17. vogee was accused
of killing 59-year-old pamela sue johnson of alturas. investigators say vogee killed johnson at
her residence, then took her to his own home which he then set on fire in a murder-suicide
attempt. modoc county sheriff tex dowdy says preliminary autopsy reports indicate vogee died
of self-asphyxiation.

56

KMTR (NBC)
Aug 13 • 5:08 PM

B_AUG_OREG_59

The apparent suicide of jeffrey epstein is bringing renewed attention to this country's federal
prison system as a whole, some of the problems believed to have plagued the facility where he
was held that have been going on for decades in many federal prisons as national
correspondent, kristine frazao reports. >> reporter: at the metropolitan correctional center
where jeffrey epstein was being held, there were quote serious irregularities, and an inability to
secure the prisoner. according to attorney general bill barth. >> i was appalled and indeed the
whole department was. >> the warning sides have been there for decades. this report states
staffing and overcrowding present constant challenges for bureau of prisons. this particular
prison which in the past held high profile suspects like drug kingpin and a mob boss john was
built to house more than 474 prisoners, but reportedly had 763 at the time of epstein's death.
despite staff shortages. by 2018, an investigation found some prisons are so pressed for guards
that they regularly compel teachers, nurses, secretaries and other support staff to step in. >>
they are relying on people who do not have expertise in corrections, these are folks who do not
have the experience of day-to-day work, walking the halls of the unit, knowing the people
housed there. >> the sentencing projects say this practice often referred to as augmentation
puts prisoners and employees in danger. >> the impact is devastating i mean it can result in
significant problems. >> significant problems including suicide and murder. like when crime
boss bolger was beaten to death in a federal prison in west virginia, with an hours of arriving.
trump administration imposed a hiring freeze had brought it a different attorney general barr
lifted that freeze in april, advocates say much more money and resources are needed in order
to see any noticeable changes occur. on capitol hill, i am christine. >>> today attorney general
barr temporarily reassigned the warden at the metropolitan correctional center in new york
and placed two staff members on administrative leave.
KOIN-POR (CBS)
Aug 13 • 5:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_60

jeff: since jeffery epstein's suspected suicide, changes have been made at the jail where he
died. the warden at the metropolitan correctional center is being reassigned temporarily, and
two workers assigned to epstein's unit are now on administrative leave. attorney genera
william barr ordered the move, after speaking out about irregularities at the new york resin.
epstein died saturday, he was facing charges of running a sex trafficking ring involving
underaged girls.
News Radio KEX
Aug 13 • 5:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_61

the Justice Department is making some big changes after the suicide of a financier alleged sex
trafficker Jeffrey Epstein and his new York city jail cell Saturday ABC very good there's Staes said
attorney general William bars changes start at the top with the removal of the current warden
at the Metropolitan Correctional center warden from the cia and Otis fill of they were Michael
57

cohen is incarcerated at the moment it's going to be coming down to new York city to be acting
warden at NCC Manhattan and that's just one change that attorney general barmaid the to
staffers on duty when the suicide happened been put on administrative leave.
KTVL (CBS)
Aug 13 • 5:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_62

o'donnell: tonight, a shake-up is underway at the federal jail where convicted sex offender
jeffrey epstein apparently took his life. did guards falsify records in a cover-up? cbs news has
exclusive information. also tonight, did the dayton shooter intentionally gun down his own
sister? newly released text messages provide a clue. it looked like a scene from a war zone.
what began as a routine traffic stop ended with a california highway patrol officer killed as
bullets flew in a wild shoot-out. one of the world's busiest airports forced to shut down again as
protesters clash with police. word tonight that chinese troops may be moving in. an early
christmas present for american shoppers as the president backs down from tariffs on chinese
goods. important news about your health: a link between blood pressure and dementia. and an
airline cracks down on pilots and drinking. >> this is the cbs evening news with norah o'donnell
reporting tonight from washington. >> o'donnell: good evening. this is our western edition. we
begin with fast-moving developments in the investigation of the apparent suicide of jeffrey
epstein. cbs news has exclusive information tonight about what could be an attempted coverup by guards at the federal detention center in new york city. that is where epstein was being
held on sex trafficking charges. the attorney general today ordered a shake-up at the jail. our
mola lenghi leads our show with this late-breaking reporting. >> reporter: a law enforcement l
source with knowledge of the investigation tells cbs news that corrections officers may have
falsified the reports thath they checked on jeffrey epstein as required by protocol. epstein was
taken off suicidetc watch about one week after an apparent attempt to hang himself on july 23.
the source tells cbs news epstein's cell-mate at the metropolitan correctional center posted
bail, leaving epstein alone in his cell last friday, the day before he died. another source familiar
with the investigation tells cbs news it appears epstein had been dead one to two hours before
he was t found. the department of justice announced today that the wardenda of the federal
jail will be reassigned, and two prison staffers were placed on administrative leave.a one day
after the f.b.i. raided epstein's 70-acre private estatevi in the virgin islands, the president said
today he wants a full investigation, which he said included questions about former president bill
clinton. >> we have to ask did bill clinton go to the island? that's the question. if we find that
out, you're going to know a lot. >> reporter: on saturday, president trump retweeted a
conspiracy theory that claims to t link the clintons to epstein's death.h. a clinton spokesman
said the suggestion that the clintons were involved is "ridiculous, and of course not true, andnd
donald trump knows it." >> o'donnell: mola lenghi joins us now. and epstein was reportedly
worthh hundreds of millions of dollars. do we know what's going to happen to his estate? >>
reporter: well, norah, attorneys representing some of epstein's alleged victims tell cbs news
they plan to file civiley cases against his estate in the coming days, some even trying to tear up
that now-infamous 2008 plea deal epstein made with florida prosecutors which would actually
make it easier for i those victims to go after epstein's accomplices.

58

B_AUG_WASH_42

KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Aug 13 • 5:30 PM
two guards assigned to watch alleged teen sex trafficking ringleader jeffrey epstein the night
that he died are now on leave and also the warden of the prison has been removed and
reassigned the announcement came amid mounting evidence. the metropolitan correctional
center may have mis mishandled its responsibility to keep epstein alive while he awaited trial
on charges of sexually abusing teenage girls. the ap reports epstein was taken off a suicide
watch last month for reasons that have not been explained a guard was also supposed to check
on him every 30 minutes. but those checks were not done for several hours before he was
found. on saturday morning according to a source who spoke with the ap on the condition of
being anonymous. the investigation though into jeffrey epstein jeffrey epstein's alleged crimes
rather continue after his death. today the president's said he supports and demands a full
investigation into that and the circumstances of epstein's death. basically what we're saying is
they want an investigation? i want a full investigation and that's what i absolutely demand and
that's why our attorney general our great attorney general has really been calling apologized
again monday. people saw fbi agents on epstein's private island on the virgin islands an fbi
spokesperson confirmed the agent's presence on the island was related to epstein the accused
sex trafficking ring leader died on saturday in a new york jail cell and what officials say was an
apparent suicide. the u.s. attorney's office has suggested it will pursue conspiracy charges
against him. that would allow them to charge anyone else involved in the scheme. some of his
accusers say the ring involved high profile political figures.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 5:45 PM

B_AUG_OREG_63

we have to talk about the alleged unlikely suicide of the perford billionaire Jeffrey Epstein I'm
lars larson with northwest reports commentary in just a mome it's that blissful time as year yet
again it's time for hot this summer spectacular that a well-qualified buyers can get 1.9 % A.P.R.
on the 2019 Honda CR-V which you made the best-selling see you be you americans 29 T hurry
into your local Honda dealer see your plan's details the something just market County you're
too late March 19 for all of your traditional interest like to be secondary to registration us
abstain billionaire or near to a billionaire also a sexual pervert never face Justice for his rape of
so many children he was going to come up for trial that assumes that his appeals were
unsuccessful and then they say on Saturday morning in new York city he managed to commit
suicide even though he had been on suicide watch until just before that time frankly I don't buy
it I think he was killed I think he had too much dirt on too many prominent powerfull rich
people and they decided he had to go the his very existence but their existence in danger and
now in new York times interview jeffrey obscene told the new York times he doesn't think
having sex with children is any different than being gang.

59

FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 8:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_64

There are multiple investigations into the apparent suicide of Jeffrey Epstein in new York
federal jail where he was awaiting trial on charges of sexually abusing dozens of young girls the
fbi and Congress among those trying to figure out how what happens cbs's small line details as
the House Judiciary committee wants and you're among the questions that the committee will
ultimately once addressed or were there any surveillance cameras placed in or near esteem sell
what psychological evaluations he may have gone through while he was in custody the federal
government also who ultimately made the decision to take that steam off of suicide watch
remember it was just two or 3 weeks ago he had attempted previously failed suicide attempt.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 13 • 8:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_43

jail staffers who were on duty and Jeffrey Epstein died had been placed on leave and years
miles parks reports that the warden of the federal lockup has been reassigned the warden of
the Metropolitan correctional Center in New York will be temporarily assigned to the Bureau of
prisons northeast regional office that's pending the outcome of investigations that the fbi and
the D.O.J. inspector general and Jeffrey Epstein's death esteem died Saturday as a result the
apparent suicide his death has raised questions including by members of Congress about what
suicide Prevention policy the jail had in place attorney general William bar so investigators have
already discovered quote serious irregular 30s at the prison where he was found dead
Department Justice also says the place to jail staffers on administrative leave until the
investigations are complete.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 7:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_65

The fallout from Jeffrey Epstein's apparent suicide in new York federal jail WCBS-TV reporter
jessica late attorney general promised a thorough investigation and this is really just the tip of
the fallout from this apparent jail cells suicide the Department of Justice confirming late this
afternoon the two guards were supposed to be keeping a close watch on jeffrey epstein had
been placed on leave and the warden of the Metropolitan correctional Center has been
reassigned at least temporarily the fbi is pulling out all the stops to investigate the death of the
accused sex trafficker CBS's Pat milton has more tortured and killed a baby it clear that the fbi
has begun reaching out to begin the process of interviewing officers and for that at the
Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan as part of its investigation into the death of
Jeffrey F teens found dead from an apparent suicide.

60

KREM (CBS)
Aug 13 • 6:14 PM

B_AUG_WASH_44

We introduced you to the news spokane county jail director michaels barbers both with crime
duty and say about his new position during the first part of that conversation. barber gave us a
better idea of his law enforcement background and now we hear from him about inmate
medical care and possible changes to prevent drugs from entering the jail. here's part two of
that interview. as a director what kind of change do you want to make to the spokane county
jail. so some of the changes that i want to make immediately i want to improve our supervision
over and over the staff and over the inmates and improve that area. we're working plans to do
that. that part of it is necearily hiring new folks is promoting folks but then and increase that
promotional ladder to give opportunity for the staff. so you said at a news conference or earlier
this year that narc has been used a few times by guards on inmates. is this more than that's
been used in previous years. i can't really say if it's more than what's been used in previous
years. there was 50 application this year to date and some of those could have been a multiple
you know administered on one particular offender. do you think that the usage in our can will
rise in the coming years. well i think it will. until we get a better grip on on the overall problem
in the spokane region we have a better understanding of you know the addiction and deal with
the direct addiction firsthand all right so you also about drugs entering the jail are their job plan
changes coming in the next few months to either curb or stop the problem of drug entering the
jail. the board of county commissioners have been really vested in this. this issue we're facing of
contraband getting the jail. they've been very supportive. they've allowed us to fund one body
scanner for the geiger facility one for downtown along with a mail scanner that would detect
drugs coming in on parcels and those type of things and then we've also ramped up our cell
searches upstairs and involve canine to help us do some of those searches. what policies you
haven't place or maybe any changes planned to prevent suicide deaths suicide is a big focus of
ours as well. we've totally revised our policy on it and the ways that we're handling we've had
our staff go through additional training on suicide prevention and what to look for and those
type of things. and then we've replaced the bed sheets with some heavier duty smocks and
some coveralls to try to ward off some of that. and it's just observation we're doing 30 30
minute rounds. we've been stalled 30-minute round clocks and all of that. the floor is reminding
rs is time to do the rounds all right. so could you explain or give me an overview how the
medical process works or an inmate needs or requests medical attention. first off we have a
contracted medical service out of naf care it is provided wonderful service for us initially when
you come in you will be given a screen by a by an order and to ensure that you're ok to come to
jail and if not you go to the gym. you know whether it be involved in an accident suffered a
head injury or one of those type of thing we're going to do our very best to make sure that you
have your medical attention upfront before you come to jail. then once you come into the jail
you undergo another more in-depth conversation with the medical staff with gets your
background and medical information from you. and then once you're up on the floor. and if
you're under medical attention or nurses do a really good job of coming to yourselves.

61

AM 860
Aug 13 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_66

It's a shakeup at the Manhattan jailer billionaire Jeffrey Epstein died of an apparent suicide a
new warden has been put in charge of the Metropolitan correctional Center according to the
Justice Department they've also plays two corrections officers on administrative leave a spokes
details to explain officers were removed from duty this tip of so was temporary pending the
outcome of the inspector general's investigation the President of correct oceans officers' Union
said due to government hiring freeze the jail was chronically understaffed and officers were
routinely forced to work overtime.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 13 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_67

There's a staff shakeup at the Manhattan federal jail well we're q sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein a
pair Lake killed himself and CBS news has exclusive information about what could be an
attempted cover-up by guards possibly falsifying records show they checked on EPS Has
required CBS is more like he has more more Department of Justice announced today that the
warden of the federal jail will be reassigned and to prison staffers we're placed on
administrative leave.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 13 • 8:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_45

Correctional officers may have falsified reports saying they checked on jeffrey epstein as
required by protocol according to a law enforcement source with knowledge of the
investigation into was apparent suicide multiple sources tell C be Snooze button obscene
cellmate Post bail last Friday leaving him alone in his cell the day before he died and that's not
all CBS news' investigative producer Pat no reports familiar with the investigation told CBS news
that did I hear jeffrey equity would get one to two hours before he was found CBS news
correspondent Mullaney with more jeff reacting was a very valuable prison he potentially have
a lot of information it's been rumored that he potentially damaging information about a lot of
people the Metropolitan Correctional Center where he was being held has been billed as one of
the safest won the most secure federal prisons in the entire prison system so if nothing else this
is a bad book for the federal government at sea was found his jail cell Saturday morning.
News Radio KEX
Aug 14 • 12:34 PM

B_AUG_OREG_68

there's new evidence of lapses the federal jail where Jeffrey Epstein died by suicide review of
camera footage inside MCC Manhattan showed the guards never made their appointed rounds
in the hours before Jeffrey Epstein used bed sheets hang himself ABC news has learned the
staff members who should have checked on that steve every 30 minutes are suspected of
62

doctoring the law books the show they made checks when in fact they did not official said the
investigation remains in its early stages and findings could change the guards have not yet been
interviewed.
News Radio KEX
Aug 14 • 4:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_69

we're learning more about what happened this past weekend when accused sex trafficker
Jeffrey Epstein died of an apparent suicide in jail from midnight to 8 a.m. Saturday morning
MCC Manhattan was down a staff member and of the 18 staff members present for their shift
10 were working overtime security camera footage showed the guards failed to make welfare
checks every 30 minutes as required but law books were altered to make it seem like they did a
team from the Bureau of prisons arrived to look into the way jail officials panel jeffrey epstein's
detention and decision taken off suicide watch ABC and Turkey today want vaccines alleged
victims filed a lawsuit against his estate and 4 accomplices who she says a neighbor told him
and helped recruit girls she says fc raped her when she was 15.
AM 860
Aug 14 • 1:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_70

a Justice Department official says more than half of the staff in Manhattan’s Metropolitan
Correctional center at the time accused sex trafficker jeffrey esteem apparently killed himself
was working overtime of the 18 staff on duty 10 were on O.T. a woman in new York sued
Epstein's state today charging he raped her when she was 14 and 15 in his mansion in new York
city correspondent Paris' Canal she filed this lawsuit because the new York had recently passed
a law that allows any adult who was abused as a child to file a lawsuit to seek recourse.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 14 • 1:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_46

New York jail House guards assigned to accuse sex offender jeffrey have seen where they are
doing their jobs might have Epstein died of an apparent suicide CBS Ebola idea Here's the latest
on that investigation a law enforcement source with knowledge of the investigation tells CBS
news corrections officers may have falsified reports that they completed required check-ins on
jeffrey Epstein he was left unmonitored for at least two hours CBS news has learned that Day
before and steve die his cellmate posted bail leaving the disgraced financier alone in his cell in
the special housing unit and now the fbi wants to review footage of the area were and steve
was hell it's unclear how he allegedly hanged himself York state is offering sex-crime accusers
one year window to file lawsuits outside the statute of limitations a move that could prompt
many older victims to come forward CBS's Thane Rosenbaum the child victims Act provides a
second chance to victims of sexual assault or now over the age of 25 who were prevented from
bringing a civil suit because the time had run out to seek damages against the people who
abuse them this reopens the door gives them an additional year to file their case hundreds
possibly thousands of losses are expected as a result of that one year window.
63

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 14 • 1:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_71

the state Department a New York woman who says she was 14 when Jeffrey Epstein abuse her
is now suing his estate days after the once prominent financiers and registered sex offender
was found dead in his jail cell of an apparent suicide attorneys for jennifer rose filed suit against
FC estate and his former associate Elan Maxwell was accused of helping recruit young girls have
sex with that scene rose says even though apps instead she still intense get Justice just network
of neighbors told me a-rod me of my youth I think may and then I felt awkward survivors of
child sexual abuse have waited years for Justice to be served are getting a chance starting today
hold their alleged abusers accountable the new York legislature temporarily extending the
statute of limitations and peers time Delta says judges in the state now bracing for a flood of
lawsuits new York had one of the most restrictive statute of limitations on sex abuse cases
meaning many adult survivors of child abuse haven't been able to file claims the legislature this
year revised that setting a one-year filing window for world cases and allowing other survivors
up until the 55th birthday to file claims one law firms says it alone has 12 100 clients ready to
file.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 14 • 1:59 PM

B_AUG_OREG_72

news sources tells CBS news that unreleased surveillance footage shows the prison guards were
supposed to check in on jeffrey epstein the night of his death did not course I'm willing he has
more a law enforcement source tells CBS news prison guards working with hep C apparently
died by suicide may have falsified reports to make it look like they were checking in on EPS to
when they were in fact not sources say the fbi is looking to review cameras inside the
Metropolitan Correctional center here where Epstein was being held law enforcement sources
tell CBS news that Simas left unmonitored for at least two hours.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 14 • 2:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_47

News sources tell CBS news that unreleased surveillance footage shows the prison guards were
supposed to check in on jeffrey epstein the night of his death did not course one moment he
has more law enforcement source tells CBS news prison guards working with FC apparently
died by suicide may have falsified reports to make it look like they were checking in on EPS to
when they were in fact not sources say the fbi is looking to review cameras inside the
Metropolitan Correctional center here where Epstein was being held law enforcement sources
tell CBS news that Simas left unmonitored for at least two hours in new York state new law has
taken effect gives victims of sexual abuse a one-year window of opportunity to file a lawsuit no
matter how long ago would occur.

64

FM News 101 KXL
Aug 14 • 2:54 PM

B_AUG_OREG_73

there's an odd little thing that popped up because of Jeffrey Epstein suicide over this last
weekend and steen was full one freak and other is a billionaire or not I don't know but he lives
in L.A. or lived in a condo in new York city that was worth somewhere between 60 and 70
million dollars that apparently got a lot of freaky art on the walls including 8 portrait of bill
clinton in 8 Blue dress everybody remember the Blue dress monica lewinsky and red high heels
a big painting of bill clinton lounging in a blue dress with red high heels the guy was about 6
kind of freak I don't think the world will miss him now that he's gone but I do think there's some
questions need to be answered about why we now understand the guards who were supposed
to be watching him and keeping an eye on him every half hour apparently decided to take a nap
one that the pay on a on the clock and then write down their log books but they checked in on
him except when they checked in on him after about 3 hours it turned out he had taken his own
life he committed suicide they say again it's an alleged suicide the suicides far as I'm concerned
I'm still not convinced Jeffrey Epstein was murdered.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 14 • 3:07 PM

B_AUG_OREG_74

there are people who are police officers including folks like corrections officers like the ones
that were sleeping tonight that jeffrey epstein committed suicide or whatever happen Do and
I'm still not entirely sure that he committed suicide we now are hearing some of the so-called
corrections officers who were supposed to be watching him we're sleeping on the job and
faking the documents to make it look like they were still doing their jobs so are there people
who do illegal things in uniform Yes there are but the vast majority of men and women who
work that job they do not get the thanks they deserve for their community they are frequently
criticized it is really not much of a surprise that when you if you get to know a police officer or
Sheriff deputy you'll find out that they live in a fairly insular community most of their friends
are cops most of their associates cops why because the rest of the community really doesn't
regard them the way we should which is an honorable profession absolutely essential for the
security of your community.
AM 860
Aug 14 • 3:10 PM

B_AUG_OREG_75

The latest details the two gods who was supposed to be looking off Jeffrey Epstein who was all
of the had been removed from suicide launch fell asleep foot 3 Allah's while he quote unquote
hanged himself and then when they realized we will see they faked the logs it's a closed caption
closed Circuit TV shows Jeffrey Epstein said kept saying joseph really Yeah right and yesterday
Jeffrey Epstein's God's never made some of the checks they lobbed into dialogue the morning
be quote disgraced financier died the to jobs in the special housing unit website was being held
with meant to be checking website every 13 minutes according to the prison protocol they have
been found to have been asleep and forged of the documentation To their rotation and they
65

have since being placed on mandatory leave and the warden has been removed to they cannot
gt station in Vietnam prisoner Yes with Walt Pickens how about T the response to the death all
Jeffrey Epstein well there is a comedian inevitable and Karen Terrence kate williams who
yesterday posted a video in response to what happened to his crime a tweet about the Epstein
death being retweeted by the President so he did a funny two-minute kind of a skit but it's I
told you so put up a website was a friend of the Clintons he was going to be a suicide and the
President read tweet him that video and what's happened since then in the last 48 hours death
threat but paul linton death threat this is some of the things that I'm now trending under the
hashtag on social media also protect terrence K williams you are a House slave that he received
an email with the subject line jeffrey epstein mood and the text of the email to this comedian
was you'll next don't do we do that all right dui dui actually say that we're going to kill a
comedienne the because we disagree with this stuff put it a political stunt is that he's just
making a jokey video and it involves the clintons and the full he must receive death threats and
it's more than just death threats.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 14 • 4:03 PM

B_AUG_WASH_48

those two new York city jail guard put on leave after the apparent suicide of accused sex
offender Jeffrey Epstein may have a lot to answer for as the investigation into its teen's death
widens CBS is mulling law enforcement source tells CBS news prison guards working with FC
apparently died by suicide may have falsified reports to make it look like they were checking in
on EPS when they were in fact not we're told the alleged sex trafficker may have been dead for
one to two hours before his body was found.
KGW-POR (NBC)
Aug 14 • 4:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_76

new development in the investigation of Jeffrey Epstein’s death in a new York city jail.
investigators are looking into whether the guards tasked with checking in on him were sleeping
on the job. Epstein had been taken off suicide watch, but guards were supposed to be checking
on him every 30 minutes. NBC news reports, two sources say there are questions about ether
the times were recorded further checks and if they were faked. both guards assigned to his unit
had been placed at this point on administrative leave and the warden of the jail has also been
reassigned.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 14 • 7:33 PM

B_AUG_OREG_77

today - the first lawsuit after jeffrey epstein's apparent suicide - alleged victim jennifer ah-roze
saying the accused sex trafficker sexually abused her when she was just 14 - "today i am
starting to reclaim my power." ah-roze - suing epstein's estate and several of his former
associates - naming ghislaine maxwell as his enabler and three unnamed employees. "they
robbed me of my youth, my identity, my innocence and my self-worth. for too long they
66

escaped accountability. i am here today because i intend to change that." the suit coinciding
with a new york state law-- that went into effect at midnight - that makes it easier for alleged
victims to file lawsuits over sexual abuse. also today - stunning new details that reveal major
security lapses in procedure the night jeffrey epstein died. sources familiar with the
investigation telling abc news -- a review of camera footage inside the metropolitan
correctional center manhattan - showed the guards failing to make some of the required checks
on epstein's cell the night of his death. two guards tasked with checking on him - who are now
on administrative leave - suspected of doctoring log entries to show they made the proper
checks - when sources say they did not. attorney general william barr - ordering major changes
- president trump weighing in - calling for a thorough investigation. sot - trump "they're saying
they want an investigation. i want a full investigation. that's what I absolutely am demandning."
(trump) megan out: abc news has learned the two guards who were supposed to be watching
jeffery epstein the night of his apparent suicide have not yet been interviewed by investigators.
an internal investigation by the bureau of prisons is happening now -- this is fairly common
practice in these circumstances.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 14 • 4:47 PM

B_AUG_OREG_78

a new rule by the fcc could make it easier for them to protect you from robocalls and also
punish the callers even if they're overseas. the fcc says they receive more than 30,000
complaints about robocalls just in the first half of this year. those calls can often have
devastating consequences as in the case of angela stan neck's other who lost hundreds of
thousands of dollars. she testified before congress to share her story. >> it is extremely hard to
imagine a loved one committing suicide, but she did. because these individuals preyed on her
and on her good heart. >> the fcc has responded now helping phone companies to block
robocalls in advance. also using newly granted authority to punish offenders, especially those
outside of the country. congress is also taking action passing bills to increase penalties and
require service providers to use call authentication at theing nolg. they hope to get the
president's signature before the end of the year.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 14 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_49

Jeffrey Epstein who apparently killed himself in a New York jail over the weekend is among the
first to take advantage of a new state law Off that gives sexual abuse victims a chance to seek
Justice CBS's Molo lanky jennifer rose filed a civil lawsuit it 12 vote won this morning she could
file yesterday because of the new child sex act she can go after her alleged abusers her filing is
the first to target not only Jeffrey Epstein's state but possible co-conspirators it specifically
names and Steans ex-girlfriend delayed Maxwell and 3 jane doe's referred to as the recruiter
the secretary and the made Maxwell has denied all wrongdoing and has not been criminally
charged more than 400 lawsuits were filed in new York state today.

67

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 14 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_50

we are investigating this is a murder suicide. >> reporter: this neighbor said she heard a noise
yesterday. >> we thought that it was a gunshot, but it was earlier in the day and i cannot be
certain so i did not think anything of it but now this. >> reporter: officers came after a family
member or family friend came to check in and found the parties and called police. >> it was
shocking. this is a safe neighborhood. this does not happen. >> reporter: neighbors say nobody
lives at this property on the one is used for storing a boat and rv and the home is also filled with
stuff. >> it is a bad situation. >> reporter: they say one of the owners would come by but kept
to himself. >> i helped him to do a couple things with his trailer but they were generally just
barely quiet. like neighbors say they are thinking about the family. >> i hope the family gets the
help that they need to get through this traumatic event. >> reporter: police also say there was a
note found at the scene. they have not yet released the identities of the two people who died
but they emphasized that there is no risk to the public.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
Aug 14 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_51

new details coming in about the gunman. >> this is just terrible. it doesn't happen here. >> a
shocking crime next door. >> it is just disturbing, live on the scene as neighbors learn the
disturbing details. it is a shocking crime that rocked this neighborhood filled with retirees. >> it
appears a son shot and killed his elderly mother before taking his own life. kara kostanich joins
us live from des moines where it all happened. >> reporter: that's right, molly, eric. police said
she left for hours right underneath this apple tree in the front yard of this house and they
indicated that this was his intention and to take his mother's life and her own. >> they did come
here to check on this residence. >> and it was an elderly mother and adult son. it was an
apparent murder suicide. they found a suicide note and a gun in the son's hands. >> this is a
great neighborhood where nothing ever happens. >> reporter: but no one had been living at
the house for years. motor homes, much more. >> and they were here the other night arguing.
as they were leaving, they only stayed half an hour. >> reporter: neighbors say that's the only
time that families visited the property. overnight to mow the lawn while folks are saddened
over what happened. they hope this property will soon be cleaned up. >> i can't believe it that
it is too close to home. >> i want to take you to a picture of this yard right now. neighbors tell
me they have been calling the city for years, trying to get this house cleaned up. the sale boat
has been here for more than 30 years and because the lawn was mowed and licensing we're
told, no thrills here, that they were never able to do anything. we have not yet learned the
name of the son and the mother. live in king county tonight, i'm kara kostanich, komo news.

68

88.5 KNKX
Aug 14 • 5:35 PM

B_AUG_WASH_52

Let's catch up now what we know and what we don't about the circumstances of Jeffrey
Epstein's death this past weekend the disgraced financier and convicted sex offender was found
unresponsive in his jail cell one apparent suicide since then troubling details have emerged
about the jail attorney general William Barber has opened an investigation into the word has
been reassigned and two guards who were supposed to be monitoring steam have been placed
on administrative leave for joining us now with the latest is Danielle Ivory of the new York times
and Daniel Justin what is the latest you have been able to learn about what was happening in
that jail in the hours leading up to the scene staff well we have learned last night two staff
members were working in the special housing unit where jeffrey epstein apparently committed
suicide it looks like they may have been sleeping during their shift they were supposed to be
checking on Mr. Epps steen and other inmates in the special housing unit every 30 minutes that
they were not doing those checks these are the cards I mentioned have now been placed on
leave that's right so one of them was a full-time Correctional officer the other one was actually
no a Correctional officer although he was a former Correctional officer he was someone Hue
had a deferral the prison now had volunteered for overtime to get smacked Sir Hey as a
Correctional officer you also reported that there's some evidence they falsified records saying
we checked don't even know where your reporting shows maybe they were asleep we did hear
that friend from 3 government officials that it is thought that they falsified records to show that
they had been checking every 30 minutes when in fact they have not that would be a crime
right false entries an official blog that could be a federal crime Yes have seized two guards
commented or his Union said I think the two guards if not commented as far as I know I've
heard from some Union officials that they feel it's unfair that the staff members that were
working as guards seem to be getting most of the blame for what happened and they think that
management is a couple here as well I know through your reporting and others that and federal
prisons across the country are suffering staffing shortages it and can you just speak briefly to
the pressure is on guard at including this facility to work overtime absolutely so when we did
the investigation about a year ago we found that people were working in incredible amounts of
overtime life-changing amounts where they couldn't hold relationships together because they
were working so much overtime what happens when you're working and when these federal
prisons where staffing short is that you might working 8 hour shift as a Correctional officer and
at the end of your chef before you can leave your calls you don't work an 8 hour shift and if you
refuse saying you can be written up for it no or be fired so most people do not refuse say on the
do it and then you go home and you only seat for it maybe like 5 hour is and he have to go back
to work it does is give some context to why the guards without justifying anything explaining
why guards my fall asleep exactly you can understand how it's possible for guards to fall asleep
foror several hours on the job without it being a conspiracy theory it sounds like they were real
problems in terms of the way that jeffrey epstein was being held is there anything you've been
able to find your reporting that suggests he was being treated in a different way from other
people being held at the facility orders to speak to a wider staffing problems or management
problems that occur Trump so they it does seem to echo problems that I seen other federal
facility is it doesn't stand out to me except that jeffrey I've seen such a high-profile figure but
69

there's been no evidence so far that I've seen that he was denny hamlin a radically different
way Yes exactly as Danielle Ivory of the new York times thank you so much for talking with us.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 14 • 5:47 PM

B_AUG_OREG_79

they really hard to do bungle these conspiracy theories about the death of Jeffrey interesting
because this guy was the powerful people he could have exposed he lived if the reasonable
people who usually tried to debunk this stuff find it naive to accept that he just up and killed
himself but yet to have a President who loves to retweet conspiracies you begin to think that
the bunking is to trial russia wins again but the more I think about it the more I believe the
Trump factor might actually help here because it means that everybody is going to try to catch
his attention with their pet theory but crazier the better like for example is up steam really bad
more after the potion where soft as you wake up unzipped the body bag stake across the GW
be a deliberate airport and fly to the private island we don't know about not by the way is not
an actual conspiracy I just made that up now but of millions of others reach for similar levels of
absurdity in hopes of earning a presidential Re tweet it might flood the zone and flooded with
so many conspiracy is that when last we get to the ball to mundane truth people might actually
excepted for change just to be able to get on with their lives.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Aug 14 • 6:27 PM

B_AUG_WASH_53

residents in a neighborhood woke up this morning to find two people dead on the lawn of a
nearby home. >> police say it's a murder suicide. >> i'm kind of shaking, i'm just sad for them
and their families. >> neighbors in the quiet community overlooking puget sound are stunned
to see two lifeless bodies in the front yard of the home. >> family members came here to check
on the residents and check on the two subjects. >> a man shot and killed his elderly mother
entering the gun on himself. a firearm in the son's hand, investigators say and a note in the yard
made that murder suicide was his intention. >> it's disturbing it's a really sleepy, quiet
neighborhood where nothing happens. >> police want their community to know tonight
there'sno threat to the public, but no one had been living in the house for years. only storing
items like old boats, rundown motorhomes and more. >> they were here the other night
arguing as they were leaving because they only stay about a half an hour. >> neighbors say it's
the only time family visited the property. in the darkness of night, to mow the lawn. folks are
shocked over the loss of two lives and now hope what they call a blighted robert he will finally
get cleaned up. >> i can't believe it. it's too close to home. >> i want to give you a clear picture
of the yard, neighbors tell me they've been calling the city for years trying to get the house
cleaned up. the sailboat right here has been here for 30 years. but, because the lawn was mold
and licensing is current on the rv, the city has not been able to do anything. we have not yet
learned the names of the son and his mother. in king county, karen costin age, komo news.

70

KING-SEA (NBC)
Aug 14 • 6:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_54

the seniors explain the desperate financial situations that can lead to some tragic cosequences.
this after a murder-suicide in whatcom county made national headlines. last week an elderly
coup became so distraught about medical bills that the husband killed his wife and then
himself. >> the deaths have definitely struck a nerve with the sone yore services community
across our country. king 5's eric wilkinson with what seniors need to know to avoid such a dire
situation. >> and two and a half years. >> reporter: she lost her husband last year to lung
cancer. since then the financial situation has been a struggle. >> the bills stayed the same, but
the household income went down by a third. and it was really, really tight. i had to borrow from
the kids. >> it is a familiar story for seniors across the country that means stretching limited
dollars. the national council on aging reports more than 25 million americans over the age of 60
live at or below the poverty line. suicide rates for men spike after age 65. the worries are very
real. >> one big medical emergency and what little i have saved gone. >> there is help out
there. >> reporter: the northwest regional council hears stories like this almoster day. he points
to a recent success story who came to his office in tears when his wife needed a major surgery
and he had to sell his house. >> we helped him find affordable housing and directed him to
caregiver support where he received some caregiver counseling that has helped him to stabilize
and sustain that role. >> reporter: there were plenty of resources out there for struggling
seniors, some 55 of them on display at the annual what com senior day, everything from free
meal services to affordable housing options. pat says there is no shame in asking for help if
someone didn't steer her toward auto section eight housing voucher, she could have ended up
living in her car. >> there are always resources. there are resources from many, many places. >>
reporter: king 5 nighs, eric wilkinson.
KXLY (ABC)
Aug 14 • 6:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_55

According to the bureau of prisons-- the night and morning shifts of jeff epstein's death-- the
prison was understaffed and nearly a staff members were working overtime-- and now camera
footage shows the guards failed to make required checks on epstein's cell the night he died.
today - the first lawsuit after jeffrey epstein's apparent suicide - alleged victim jennifer ah-roze
saying the accused sex trafficker sexually abused her when she was just 14 -"today i am starting
to reclaim my power." ah-roze - suing epstein's estate and several of his former associates naming ghislaine maxwell as his enabler and three unamed employees."they robbed me of my
youth, my identity, my innocence and my self-worth. for too long they escaped accountability. i
am here today because i intend to change that."the suit coinciding with a new york state law-that went into effect at midnight - that makes it easier for alleged victims to file lawsuits over
sexual abuse.also today - stunning new details that reveal major security lapses in procedure
the night jeffrey epstein died.sources familiar with the investigation telling abc news -- a review
of camera footage inside the metropolitan correctional center manhattan - showed the guards
failing to make some of the required checks on epstein's cell the night of his death.two guards
tasked with checking on him - who are now on administrative leave - suspected of doctoring log
71

entries to show they made the proper checks - when sources say they did not. attorney general
william barr - ordering major changes - president trump weighing in - calling for a thorough
investigation.sot - trump "they're saying they want an investigation. i want a full investigation.
that's what i absolutely am demandning." (trump)megan out:abc news has learned the two
guards who were supposed to be watching jeffery epstein the night of his apparent suicide
have not yet been interviewed by investigators.an internal investigation by the bureau of
prisons is happening now -- this is fairly common practice in these circumstances.
KOBI
Aug 14 • 6:36 PM

B_AUG_OREG_80

Everyday ... someone loses their life to suicide. in our community ... it's becoming a crisis. while
it's an incredibly difficult thing to talk about, not only for media organizations... but for all of us
in our personal lives... we need to... to show people who are struggling or have struggled ...
they're not alone. that's why nbc5 launched 'in this together.' tonight ... we're meeting jacquie
farr... she lost her father to suicide when she was 17 years old. then ... just last year ... her
nephew took his own life. shes sharing her story with us tonight and how she tries to spread
positivity to those that need it. jacquie farr knows all too well how suicide can effect your life. in
1980... when jacquie was 17 years old ... she lost her father to suicide. "when my dad died it
was just like quiet thing and its like myself and a couple relatives were at the funeral and you
just 'shhh'." she said when it happened .... it was especially hard because no one really talked
about suicide. "people treated you not only like a freak but there was such a stigma and it
wasn't accepted." and... like many people who've lost a loved one to suicide... jacquie never
saw it coming. "i had no idea, i was young i mean he didnt seem sad and back then you just
didnt really hear about depression." as if losing one person in her family to suicide wasn't hard
enough ... last year she lost her nephew. "38 years later my nephew does the same thing and i
just really had no idea he was so loved, everybody loved him and he was such a good kid." but
even through her tragedy ... jacquie's finding ways to help bring people joy. not long ago ... she
sent me these rocks ... 'it says 'in this together' and i thought i can do this, i can do this i can be
in this together" jacquie's been painting rocks like these and dropping them around the rogue
valley for years. she hopes they'll bring happiness and love to someone who needs it. her
message... "this too shall pass. on the rocks i wrote the semi colon because its not an end its
not a period, its continue on" that was blakely mchugh reporting... we want to be able to share
other people's stories like jacquies in the hopes of truly showing people that are struggling ...
we are in this together. if you'd like to share your story with us ... email us at: in this together at
kobi-5 dot com. if you or someone you know is struggling with thoughts of suicide ... you can
call the national suicide prevention lifeline at 1-800-273-talk. the 'in this together' campaign
kicked off today with a meeting at our downtown medford studios. agencies involved with the
campaign gathered to talk about the next two years and how to get the conversations started
on suicide. it's happening all too often in southern oregon and northern california. attendees
included everyone from mental health professionals to local police departments and other nonprofits. "this is so important because three years ago a fourteen year old said to me 'i don't care
how many of us you graduate. how about you keep us all alive?' and i think when a fourteen
year old looks you straight in the face, you better do something." the campaign will last two
72

years and hopes cover a variety of topics from prevention to resources in the area. 'in this
together' hopes by starting these conversations, it will be able to make a lasting change in the
community.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Aug 14 • 6:40 PM

B_AUG_OREG_81

just a few days into probe jeff re"e.p." prison asued soy deficiencies already uncovered. two
guards tasked watching his unit are suspected of falsifying log enfries shows this were checking
on "e.p." every 30 minutes. put instead associate the press reports the pair had fallen asleep.
leaving him unattended for several hours. it was during that time "e.p." reportedly tied bed
sheet around his next committing suicide earlier saturday morning. both employees have been
placed on administration i have leave. former prison guard says even those half hour checks
may not have stopped "e.p." from taking his own life. there if someone want to. our policies
revere cloochl in could be lished things had thannen in. . >> filed civil suit wednesday. jennifer
says he raped her when he 14 and 15 she names's state three members of his staff who she call
enablers as well former girlfriend. mac kewell british social ill accused helping "e.p." recruit
underage girls for his section trafficking network she already facing sill lane al ler gazing to from
other "e.p." accuser ever. >>ing a can you say come out of mouths of the alleged victims but
government has yet formerly to accuse her. jeff re"e.p." was placed on suicide suicide watch
which was lifted sue side watch which was lifted several days later.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 14 • 7:04 PM

B_AUG_WASH_56

two people are dead following a shooting in South King County Colo charlie harder ports from
the scene here outside his home in Des moines North the Hill neighborhood what appears to be
a murder suicide involving a mother and her son police commander Michael Rabin says details
are still coming in we have all our resources on scene there's no threat to the public a fire arm
has been located on scene and that's been recovered neighbors describe this as a nice place to
you've never had anything like this in our neighborhood just most is a mail box stuffed and you
don't know then Carper all police say there is no threat to the public.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 14 • 8:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_57

police say a mother and son are dead from a murder-suicide the North Hill neighborhood
commander Mike Redmond says their bodies were found outside a home and a gun was found
in the son's hand it appears as if the shooter may have occurred over 24 hours ago so they were
dispatched about 10 30 this morning it appears the shooting occurred quite some time ago
grads says suicide note was left.

73

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 14 • 10:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_58

two people been found dead des moines North Hill neighborhood was charlie Barker reports
from the scene police commander Mike Redmond says two people involved here knew each
other there really nation ship is a mother so time he does make it clear there is no threat to the
public calling this a murder-suicide neighbors describe this is a great place to Yeah Yeah and
then the mines North phil was pretty quiet you've got a mix of snow group of people that live
here come on there's a lot of people that are retired here they also describe this place where it
happened as a tall order.
News Radio KEX
Aug 15 • 10:30 AM

B_AUG_OREG_82

Our top story the real them responsible for looking after Jeffrey Epstein being interviewed day
following his weekend suicide maybe sees our pitchers he has more this is the first chance the
guards will have to tell their side of the story after sources said they missed their appointed
rounds every 30 minutes and doctored law books to make it appear otherwise few staff
members at the Metropolitan Correctional center have been put on temporary leave.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 1:47 PM

B_AUG_WASH_59

According to a new report Microsoft co-founder bill Gates met with jeffrey epstein several
years ago and even flew aboard the accused sex traffickers private jet almost court when hank
has more the cnbc report says Gates met with up steam in new York city in 2013 to discuss
philanthropic spending the meeting came about 3 years after have steen had served well
publicized 13 month prison term for soliciting underage prostitute the report says people who
knew at the scene said he would brag about his Association with gates saying the tech
billionaire activist Epstein's informal adviser a paid spokesperson acknowledges the meeting
but denies the two had and adviser relationship the report also says gates flew to Florida
aboard one of Epstein's private jets the jet was not the infamous slowly day express allegedly
used to traffic young women and girls at the scene apparently Committed Suicide in Manhattan
jail cell last weekend.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 15 • 10:35 AM

B_AUG_OREG_83

thank you so much for being here how jamie marchly that's a big advantage there scott roberts
with jeffrey epstein had broke And bones in his neck I guess that's not a big surprise noon when
you hear what wall what are we talking about here but there's one bone the usual lee 8 can
happen when you dive by hanging but its most commonly Associated with strangulation being
killed by somebody highly neck bone Yes good one loves to read a lot about you know last time
you ate neck trying understand it even went from just 30 get worried for our safety hours said a
74

lot of bad things about hillary clinton the past I thought me the other day that said Mark safe
from clinton's on my face I think it's a good course for a lot of memes for a lot of hashtags out
there about a month who's responsible for this this doesn't seem to be a suicide now that I
would neck bone it can happen with hanging especially as someone gets older but not as often
as when your strength alt right okay that about the thumbs pressing down on the wind pipe is
that bone just under attack your tongue right Yep Virginia the song Yeah Yes what supports the
tongue down okay parties want to get out when you play operation that about this case but this
is really interesting this interview okay so new York magazine caught up with Igor is no Yes who
was Jeffrey Epstein's bodyguard driver for years there was a part of it was amazing how it's
there's no audio recording of that I know of but the transcript it reads like something out of a
monster movie 12 and again the guy's name is Igor MPs but there are sometimes you pick out
bits and pieces who could do the russian hacks I didn't go right from russia there you go
through that phase of filed in Virgin violence you don't need to be there reporter Yeah you
want to do that we want it out Yeah we need some sort of a company man you think so Yeah I
can do that sure OK we'll just start here Ahh Yeah Ahh when you find out that you die anywhere
else day Sunday a way that would ease thing what did you think when you found out do you
really want to know somebody help him do that and you think somebody helped him kill
himself he is okay why listen you know all that's going a little too deep hold on a second do you
think that what happens on its own it's bad the bull well one thing he told me for instance okay
one thing you told me is he got a heads-up when the authorities were going to come to his
House the night before listen what you say it's between you and me I time-out right now in the
acting miss out exactly we're going to work for your way this interview it work for Yes that in
my commentary Mark leave here or not reporter he would get calls the night before the cops
were coming not that of the departed me okay I go back reporter now the cat you told me he
would get phone calls the night before and 8 o'clock the police are going to come he would get
a heads up from local police transcript read here silence you told me that Igor read the quote
well you didn't read whatever you want right now don't just mean you can put your cell For in
big trouble listen don't put yourself in For in big trouble listen don't put yourself in trouble
seriously trouble seriously I'm telling you to give you a chance to remember I'm telling you to
give you a chance to remember because we talked about because we talked about this stuff I
know it's hard this stuff I know it's hard I don't know what you mean about put myself in I don't
know what you mean about put myself in trouble let that goal trouble let that goal seriously
wet that goal seriously wet that goal why is it so important are you worried about the why is it
so important are you worried about the local cop police and if you're really smart and I'm not
going off the bat over the floor all okay please what you mean I can't explain you over the
phone any of this I understand you think he could have had help committing suicide okay first
of all I have to go right now I have what your e-mails and said you don't do any of that what
your e-mails and said stuff just don't stuff just don't play it seriously can you tell me can you tell
me why can't I can't miss you one more question go ahead you've been talking to anyone in the
government the fbi have become great talking to you.

75

KGW-POR (NBC)
Aug 15 • 11:04 AM

B_AUG_OREG_84

new questions in the mysterious death of jethro s steen. he sustained multiple breaks in his
neck bones. they say the spray can happen when a person hangs themselves or when they die
from strangulation. and check out this painting epstein had hanging in his new york mansion.
former president bill clinton wearing a blue dress and red pumps in the oval office. why would
he have this painting? >> because he is weird. >> he also had a manikin hanging from the
rafters in a bridal gown. >> i mean this may be think of that movie eyes wide shut. stanley
kubrick. when people get a lot of money, what they don't realize is a lot of things you imagine
you do or don't do are limited by your financial funds and when you have unlimited funds. >>
and you are a step ago. >> and you are a sicko with nefarious intentions. all of a sudden you
have people that don't ask questions. how did you pick this girl up? she is 14. whatever. if you
have enough money you can find someone to do the job for you. all of this makes sense when
you think about the fact this guy was a billionaire and it's just a fact. it's unfortunate but a fact.
>> you think we barely scratched the surface on this entire case >> they are so sure of that. >>
i'm positive. how deep and dark do you think this goes? >> there are no bounds for what this
person has done and his co- conspirators. there are no bounds which what will continue to be
affected by what he has done. al is right. people cannot even imagine that there is an entire
underground. you can't even, it is something you can't fathom. >> we've seen a movie plots
with leslie nielsen? >> no. william neeson with the horrific plot and taken to be traffic. this
happens in our own backyard. not in southeast Asia, here in America. >> it's sickening that
people would want to put blinders on and this might open up that window into that world and
if it goes deeper they find some things and we go far into conspiracies and i know a lot of
people might not think that but i don't care and I’m glad he did not kill himself and i hope we
find out people and we shine a light on them. this dude is a scumbag and i'm sick of talking
about him. >> i hate seeing his face.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 11:17 AM

B_AUG_WASH_60

Let's say Jeffrey Epstein was left alone for more than an hour this is your beat theory misses be
here ABC one review nothing else just added to the coup up poorly run the government prison
and the guys screwed up because he had been working fired 15 hour see on the guy's got
messed up but it did the system does Yeah it's just you know crying he vomited okay Yeah
that's a day Yeah thee is extinct paid somebody he listened and look the other way I read about
an hour to kill myself right and made 8 he takes a bunch of cash gives it to the guy and often
and as he left alone they ordered take his own life see clinton Trump prompter sure it's the
Gershwin you name it and I was one those guys had him killed off Yes okay so it could be a
combination of dnc this new news as the path the broken bones in Jeffrey Epstein's neck more
often happen due to strangulation then do suicidal paying a hot what I hear from my Fox
medical you know I've had his credential than that being fractured and other fractures in the
neck make it more likely that Bill clinton did I and again this is a percentage coal more likely that
was a homicide and suicide but it can be both it can be I would rather they can either be a
76

suicide or a homicide still hasn't been confirmed I am now more suspicious than ever that this
could be a homicide number one because of the bones that answer is going to come to spill
because if someone is attacked you see signs of the attack on the body that has been discussed
yet it hasn't been released yet I'm waiting to see that someone hold you down and strangle you
use seeing evidence on the body up Yeah everybody knows that but it could be John a
combination of the dnc he could have paid somebody to don't done that would he be giving
money to look the other way and then pay a guy coming in.
News Radio KEX
Aug 15 • 11:30 AM

B_AUG_OREG_85

the investigation is to jeffrey epstein chose a broken bone in his neck when he killed himself in
federal custody and these these are your Turkey has more a source with knowledge of the
autopsy told ABC news jeffrey epstein's sustained a broken highly bone when he hanged
himself with a bedsheet inside his cell the Manhattan Correctional Center the office of the chief
medical examiner here declined to comment but cautioned against taking a single finding out of
context we're told there's still nothing to suggest that the teen died in any other matter than
suicide the autopsy was completed Sunday with the results are pending.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 11:30 AM

B_AUG_WASH_61

a spokesperson for bill gates confirms the Microsoft co-founder met with late financier Jeffrey
Epstein 6 years ago 3 years after the accuse sex traffickers first prison term calls growing make
with more gates was still serving as Microsoft chairman in 2013 when he met with up steam in
new York city sources familiar with the meeting tells cnbc the two met to discuss ways to
increase philanthropic spending the meeting came about 3 years after esteem and served a 13
month prison term in florida for soliciting underage prostitute a spokesperson for Gates has
esteem never performed any official financial advisory work for gates reports say gates did fly
and one of them Steans private jets although not aboard the infamous slowly day expressed
esteem was jailed last month for sex trafficking young women including girls in their young
teens he was found dead in his jail cell an apparent suicide last weekend.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 12:15 PM

B_AUG_WASH_62

we're learning more about the death of Jeffrey Epstein in Manhattan lockup initially called a
suicide although old conspiracy theories question that's ABC aired at her ski joins us now on the
news line from new York and aaron what can you tell us about what the autopsy found so far
there's a broken neck bone with jeffrey epstein had sustained as he hanged himself with a
bedsheet in his cell taylor that's fueling speculation that maybe he was strangled to death but
also consistent with the way that that team appears to have killed himself and so far
investigators tell us that there is nothing to suggest this was anything other than a suicide as I
understand this and in particular bone that was broken in at Steans neck also came to light in
77

the eric Garner investigation the man who was killed in an unsanctioned stranglehold by NYPD I
realized I would but you have a right and Adam's Apple no forensic expert so I would divert to
two experts so sure if you could break it if he could go or choked to death but also if you choke
yourself to death so I don't think it's out of line with what I hear from from experts and medical
professionals would there be a good move but the beam self-inflicted and again so far there's
no evidence to suggest that anything other than Jeffrey Epstein taking his own life but still at
this point the medical examiner hasn't come out and said that is the for sure causes rain they
had not Said publicly they say the reason for that is there waiting for additional information
from the federal investigation is still ongoing and the medical examiner's office said it's not
unusual because they would want to know if there are any pictures or videos and witness
accounts that could bolster their forensic findings and so once that is complete we expect the
medical examiner's office to release the cause and manner of death and in that federal
investigation we learning anything new today any prisoners saying I heard something we saw
something media plead guilty I doubt I believe he goes on the cellblock are being interviewed
we know the guards are being interviewed today and so they're going to get a chance to tell
their side of the story after they've been blamed for failing to adhere to protocol but says had
steel and others that inmate should be checked every 30 minutes for that unit so if there are
witness accounts we can be helpful to put a fencer the contending to incorporate that into their
investigation.
News Radio KEX
Aug 15 • 12:49 PM

B_AUG_OREG_86

Erin welcome back to the show market ended the year autopsy results still not been released
by the medical examiner's office here in new medical examiner's office here in new York
pending York and in additional information from the federal federal investigators were looking
at investigators were looking at in depth that Adams human haven't we learned at in death that
he broke one of his neck bones but highly both Own which is right around the Adam's Apple if
you Own which is right around the Adam's Apple if you can picture that and can picture that
and that's consistent with that's consistent with strangulation murder or Gore joke or
something with strangulation murder or Gore joke or something like that and at like that and at
this point investigators say there's nothing to suggest that the teen died of anything other than
the suicide and we know that he used bed sheets to to hang yourself but yourself himself an
assault okay women they say there's nothing to suggest okay women they say there's nothing
to suggest there was anything other than have half hanging seat he banging seat he hanged
himself but this is the kind of bone is broken when somebody puts a somebody puts a choker
around your neck with her and then look to the with their at it and looked at the bit know it it
could be consistent and I no apologies know it could be consistent and I no apologies so I'll
leave it so I'll leave it to wanted to forensic experts but you know a lot of you know a lot of
speculation horses pawed at did somebody kill him speculation courses for it or did somebody
kill him or did hillary clinton walking was selling murder jeffrey being because sound but the
cash but because I'm not but the cash but be need at this point the authorities be need at this
point the authorities say there's no evidence it was anything other than the suicide now 5 days
later that the Justice Department and Bureau 5 days later that the Justice Department and
78

Bureau of prisons cannot come out of prisons cannot come out and say that there's no and say
that there's no evidence of evidence of homicide I don't is it is striking to me even though we I
don't is it is striking to me even though we continue to be told by law enforcement officials that
you have to be there's nothing to suggest that you have to be there's Jeffrey Epstein died of
anything other than well if somebody attacked I guess if you were sure choked there would be
hoped there would be signs on his body and there Besides attack camera footage of somebody
went into his cell at this point we don't have that so the only thing we know that the camera
shows that the guards failed to make their appointed rounds in a 30 minute intervals as
required by protocol now the they did the lingering question is was Jeffrey Epstein left alone on
purpose or was it just a colossal failure by the Bureau of prisons almost journey to wales a
godfather to order that scene was good that's an interesting thought to their to their were
cameras in the hallway I would normally be cameras in the cell looking at the prisoner and in
some circumstances only if he had been on suicide watch and we know from law enforcement
officials that he was taken off suicide watch July 29th 6 days after an incident that still hasn't
been fully explained actually the judge who is going to oversee and steam trial wrote to the
Bureau of prisons and steam trial wrote to the Bureau of prisons about this and said Hey about
this and said Hey that July 20 third thing we esteem we're at scheme went to the hospital with
marks on went to the hospital with marks on his neck he still haven't fully explain lower ballot
about he still haven't fully explain what that was about whatever was a tenant the hospital
briefly and he was put on was put on suicide watch suicide watch Daddy was taken off suicide
watch and I think it's still a good deal of curiosity about why that decision was made we know
would have required psychiatric evaluation to and we know that the deputy attorney general
Jeffrey Rosen was informed of the decision and add the fact that the corner still has released
the full report yet we're just getting bits and pieces thanks here investigative reporting and but
what we see them the full report probably in conjunction with the federal investigation the
medical examiner's office says they're not being cagey here that it's common for being cagey
here to want to know…
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 15 • 1:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_87

the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein is revealing some information about how he died more
now from CBS correspondent bill break off CBS news has confirmed that scene was awaiting
trial on sex trafficking charges head to a broken bone in his neck and back could be consistent
with hanging or strangulation the medical examiner's office says it's only a single finding and all
pieces of information have to be considered to determine the cause and manner of death at he
was found dead in his federal jail cell in Manhattan on Saturday when authorities at the time
called an apparent suicide.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 15 • 2:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_88

the autopsy on financier Jeffrey Epstein who died in an apparent suicide has been completed
and it is raising more questions cbs' bill right cough reports. CBS news has confirmed reports
79

that the autopsy Jeffrey Epstein showed they were broken bones in his neck but the medical
examiner's office is warning against any early conclusions it says the broken bones are only one
finding. a comprehensive investigation into the cause of that steve step and that the
determination is still underway. Epstein was being held in a federal prison in Manhattan
awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 5:14 PM

B_AUG_WASH_63

more about Jeffrey Epstein’s suicide which I'm big into probability and I would say the strong
strong likelihood is that this was not a suicide so nobody had committed suicide in the
Manhattan jail for 30 years this guy was in isolation after being identified as suicidal 3 weeks
ago he was taken off suicide watch just two weeks said earlier he it over Cabrera's malfunction
so we have no video of what happened in his cell those guards were supposed to check on him
regularly fella slate and the doctor the lines and now the autopsy has come out and there's a
broken bone in his neck that almost always is Associated with homicide strangulation homicides
now in 6% of Hangings this bone breaks so there is a 6% chance just based on the autopsy that
it was a suicide lacked when you combine that Bowl and it's usually associated with
strangulation homicides you combine that with the cameras malfunctioning the security guards
supposedly falling asleep just being taken off suicide watch the were screams heard in his jail
cell the morning of his suicide squad reaches or heard is cellmate was moved out of the day
before this one a suicide there are a lot of powerful people he could tell stories about these
powerful people having sex with underage girls and by the way did you hear that after he had
been arrested and done time for heard sex with underage girls the heroine's fly on his plane bill
gates bill and we don't know why and they the claim insurers that abstain tried to pass himself
off some kind of a lamp for best but if you're bill gates wouldn't share vetting process tell you
not to get off on the private plane of a guy who's been convicted of having sex with underage
girls I just I find it to be any incredibly disturbing lack of judgment by bill gates they say it was to
discuss Fulham for paying this is CNBC say that is reporting this bill gates spoke with Jeffrey
Epstein more than once to discuss ways to increase philanthropic spending knowing that this is
a guy who served a sentence in 2008 for a listing an underage girl from bill gates stay billion
miles away from this Yeah it's very where it's very weird story.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 15 • 3:36 PM

B_AUG_OREG_89

I know we've been talking jeffrey epstein quite a bit this week but it seems almost every day
there's a brand new development in the alleged suicide probable murder of Jeffrey Epstein I'm
not saying the guy didn't deserve to die for to die for the things he did to group for girls for the
things he did two children he richly deserved said in a deep dark hole somewhere but the fact
that they let him commit suicide or allowed him to be murdered whichever it turns out to be is
crazy should Jeffrey Epstein's guards who slept on the job get fired and 91% of you said Yes only
9% of you said no although 9% is a pretty big no number there I was on the yes side of that
particular one Bodway feel like a military challenge going to check out the lars larson showed
80

challenge going your funded lars larson to the podcast gone to the podcast show sound cloud
iTUNES ry hard show sound cloud I tunes dry hard now you can tell your Alexa device to play
the lars to play the lars larson sean mentioned there were some developments the biggest
development I think we've learned in the last 24 hours about the alleged death for alleged
death for homicide suicide jeffrey Epstein’s homicide is he was probably strangled.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 15 • 4:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_64

New questions about the jailhouse death of accused sex offender Jeffrey Epstein CBS's bill
break off CBS news has confirmed reports that the autopsy Jeffrey Epstein showed they were
broken bones in his neck but the medical examiner's office is warning against any early
conclusions it says the broken bones are only one finding a comprehensive investigation into
the cause of that stings death and that the determination is still underway that steve was being
held in federal prison in Manhattan awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.
KREM (CBS)
Aug 15 • 4:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_65

In other news with suicide rates on the rise the government wants to make a crisis hotline
easier to reach. yeah they hope people will eventually be able to call. 9 8 8 for help. a law
passed last year required the federal communications commission to study assigning a three
digit number for suicide prevention. it we're kind of like be 9 1 1 for emergencies or even 3 1 1
for city services the fcc says. there is overwhelming support for a three-digit number because it
would just be easier for distressed people to get help. the fcc chairman hopes to start the
month-long process to make it happen.
KDRV (ABC)
Aug 15 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_90

klamath jail suicide attempt-ots an inmate held in the klamath county jail is in the hospital
tonight. the sheriff's office says he tried to kill himself. correction's deputies needed to give him
c-p-r to revive him. the man is facing disorderly conduct, harassment, and criminal trespass
charges. he's currently in the intensive care unit at sky lakes medical center. the klamath county
sheriff's office and the klamath falls police department are investigating the incident. medical
examiners have completed an autopsy on jeffrey epstein. it shows he has "multiple breaks in his
neck bones." according to the washington post- the broken bones are consistent with epstein
type of death. epstein was placed on suicide watch last month after an incident in the jail. he
was taken off suicide watch in late july after he was given daily psychological assessments. two
prison staff members who were guarding the unit where epstein died failed to check on him for
about three hours the night he died. that's according to the new york times. suicide hotlinewipe fs there are plenty of resources available for you or anyone you know who might be
contemplating suicide. you're seeing the numbers on your screen right now. you can call or text
those numbers any time to reach someone that can help. fcc new suicide hotline-ots the
81

federal communications commission is working on a new nationwide suicide prevention and
mental health hotline. it would be a three-digit phone number- like a 9-1-1 for mental health.
senator ron wyden has been pushing for the new hotline. oregon's suicide rates are higher than
the national average. suicide kills more than 800 oregonians a year. senator wyden says it's a
public health crisis.
KHQ (NBC)
Aug 15 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_66

an autopsy on jeffrey epstein has found he suffered a broken neck. a medical expert says the
injury is common in victims of hanging and/or strangulation. experts say the injury is more
common in strangulations... but there's still no indication of foul play in epstein's death. the
new york city medical examiner has not yet said whether he was murdered or killed himself.
the fbi and department of justice are investigating the case. epstein was facing life behind bars
for sexual exploitation of minors. epstein's private island in the u-s Virgin Islands has become
the focus of the investigation. epstein bought little saint james island more than two decades
ago and built a mansion. the multi-million-dollar island will probably now be sold to settle the
many lawsuits launched against epstein and his estate for his alleged sexual exploitation of
minors.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 15 • 5:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_67

The recent murder suicide of Ferndale couple who were overwhelmed by medical bills weighed
on the minds of people at the annual Walk senior day Havana Park yesterday path her husband
died last year and she tells King 5 that's been a financial struggle the stayed the same but the
household income went down by a third And it was really tight and I tomorrow from kids
statistics show 25 million Americans over age 60 live at or below the poverty line and Suez suit
suicides among men spike over age 65 brian blackwell with the Northwest regional Council in
Bellingham says hope is available and points the recent case of a man who came to them in
tears after having cell House to pay for his wife surgery are staffer help them find affordable
housing and connecting to care family caregiver support where he received some caregiver
counseling and that has helped him to stabilise sustain that role.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
Aug 15 • 5:35 PM

B_AUG_OREG_91

liz: forensic experts are shedding light on the death of jeffrey epstein. one of the broken bones
was near the adam's apple. it can break when someone hangs themselves or strangled to
death. he was placed on suicide watch. he was taken off suicide watch in late july. then died on
saturday. two prison staff members who were guarding the unit where epstein died failed to
check on him for three hours the night he died.

82

KOBI
Aug 15 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_92

an investigation is underway into an inmate's attempted suicide at the klamath county jail.
investigators say a 53-year-old man being held on misdemeanor charges tried to take his own
life just after 8 Wednesday night in a booking cell. the name of the inmate has not been
released. jail staff were able to re- establish a pulse, and the man is now being cared for in the
intensive care unit of sky lakes medical center. as of noon, he was listed in 'serious' condition.
sheriff chris kaber declined to comment on the incident pending the results of a full
investigation.
News Radio KEX
Aug 15 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_93

the investigation into accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein's death in two a source with
knowledge of the autopsy told ABC news jeffrey epstein's sustained a broken highly bone when
he hanged himself with a bedsheet inside his cell the Manhattan Correctional Center the office
of the chief medical examiner here declined to comment but cautioned against taking a single
finding out of context we're told there is still nothing to suggest that the teen died in any other
manner than suicide the autopsy was completed Sunday with the results are pending.
KING-SEA (NBC)
Aug 15 • 9:11 PM

B_AUG_WASH_68

tonight police in new york are mourning the loss of another of their own, the 9th officer to die
by apparent suicide just this year, and the second this week the nypd searching for ways to stop
what the commissioner has called a mental health crisis, is now considering adding more
psychologists and urging officers who were struggling to reach out for help and if you or
someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts call the national suicide prevention
lifeline at 1-8 hundred-273-8255.
KATU-POR (ABC)
Aug 15 • 6:43 PM

B_AUG_OREG_94

reporter: traditionally the thought of school nurses brings checks on children and bandaid
bregades. >>> we need to be communicating the role that we play. >>> she's the president of
the nurse's association. when a student starts to see a child at school, it may turn into physical
symptoms but turn into so much more. >> a second grader never comes in and says i need a
councilor. a 2nd grader will come in and just keep coming in saying i have a headache. >>> it's
funny to see how mental health is impacting a child. >>> there was a lot of people say we need
more councilors and often times, the first contact is with a school nurse. >>> reporter: the
nurses we spoke with are there story they hear fro difficult to hear from. >>> so much trauma
that has been going on. >>> we have suicide attempts and down into the elementary level and
it's just heart breaking. >>> it's just as important to take care of themselves. >>> how do we
83

regroup and take care of ourselves because we have to be whole and taken care of before it
can be 100%. >> and it's that help that can make the difference. >>> reporter: most school
nurses are not stationed at just one school. over a week they would be spread out over a few if
a facilities. >>> research shows the benefits of sports can save into adulthood. it creates a safe
environment to help learn important skills. >>> it can lead to more positive excuses. >>> team
sports preferred protection and this did not get as depressed as kids that were engaged in
group activities. >>> this research reinforces the mental health when it comes to the overall
well being.
AM 860
Aug 15 • 8:10 PM

B_AUG_OREG_95

the case of jeffrey epstein gets interesting are interesting her every day do when you hang
yourself from what I understand that you don't necessarily breaking certain Bowl in your neck
and you got the story vote on talk shows right I do from USA today jeffrey epstein who died last
weekend after being found unconscious in a New York jail cell suffered multiple breaks to his
neck bones including the highly awaited bone near that Adam's Apple can occur and hanging
and strangling should according to media reports the office of New York city's chief medical
examiner Barbara Sampson completed an autopsy the disgrace for answers body Sunday but
listed the cause of his death as pending the cause of death has not announced a person familiar
with operations at the detention facility that abstained who is awaiting trial on sex trafficking
charges was discovered in his cell they bedsheet around his neck at the Washington Post first
reported the autopsy found abstinence suffered multiple breaks the neck bones including the
highway asked about the neck injuries Sampson's said the statement no single factor in an
autopsy can provide conclusive answer about what happened the Post reported no forensic
investigations all information must be synthesized to determine the cause and manner of death
everything must be consistent no single finding can be evaluated in a vacuum the statement
said NBC news also reported the autopsy found a bone break have scenes knack News medical
correspondent John torres noted highlight fractures are more likely for older adults said studies
show they are occurring roughly 25% hanging deaths and 35% of strangulation deaths it I did
your story he committed suicide I have great he did not pending could happen this way he
could happen that way no cause of death was given other than eat it no lack of oxygen from
circulation but South strangulation or somebody else did it usually pretty cut and dried okay
died self-inflicted wounds close case have a nice day not so fast this one pending I love I heard
multiple reports today with ohio a break is is generally speaking more problem with somebody
kill you then when you kill yourself your story is 25% suicide 25 or 35% strangulation so only a
small increase between regulations and suicide but I've been hearing all day that's actually
much more prevalent when somebody does the strangulation do you so not being a medical
examiner is go by the stories and as a former journalist also go by what they don't tell you it did
not say it was a suicide they're calling a pending the there's a lot more to come out on us I'm
not speculating I'm telling you this is the today if we don't have a cause of death yet kerry of
the official we now Yeah the cover news long time it didn't take long to put a cause of death
down right doesn't will have one here are reports that he was planning to meet with a lawyer
using good spirits he's ready to go and that yet ready to go the value not going anywhere and
84

get I gotta love lost for ung for jeffrey epstein he is a convicted sex predator at is a piece of
garbage and I was hoping that he would get due process and real Justice is done a UMP and in
the course of him finding that anybody everybody I care who lives involved in sex trafficking
girls anybody two little girls he twice seems they should have health effect this better not make
that go away I would build boris saying that still we're investing get to the bottom of it Yes still
be Justice so that's the latest report.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 15 • 8:13 PM

B_AUG_WASH_69

America’s suicide rate is at its highest level since world war two for first of all condolences for
the deaths of those officers know the NYPD has got to be shock over that but beyond that what
would you do as President about mental health in this country not just for police officers but for
everyone josh I do appreciate you crazy what we're going through here it's incredibly painful
Our officers serve us in every community people no because one thing we've done is they have
a voice that she build relationships between our police and officers very personal very
individually so when we lose an officer's suicide it's very personal for people of the city and
obviously members of the apartment and I send a message out to the Department about
something very personal my own I wanted to say to people I hope this helps because we've all
been through this and one in 5 Americans experiences mental health challenge every family
affected my family with my dad who served in world war two who came back from the ballot
local now with half a leg blown off by a grenade who suffered physically but much more over
the years suffered emotionally spiral downward I was young watching this very good man has
very strong man descended alcoholism depression he ultimately took his own life and my dad
was a someone to admire in so many ways but he could not overcome what we now know his
PTSD and he didn't know how to accept help people tried to offer to me he felt the stigma he
felt it would people think there's something wrong with him he felt he could take care of his
problems himself and I sent that message out that story of a my own family's experience to the
men and women NYPD to try and say no matter you know how good person how good a public
servant how strong you are how devoted you are you know you still can have a challenge and
should seek help and you should never feel ashamed and so we are going to have to do that on
a much bigger scale in this whole nation has used that word that mental health crisis right back
and I would only say one thing what about my wife Chirlane has been working on here with a
thriving nation should be applied Ashley there's no national mental stress I want your I do want
to hear more about your strategy when we continue our conversation with new York mayor
and 2020 contender bill de Blasio.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 16 • 3:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_96

the chief medical examiner New York says an autopsy rather shows a financier Jeffrey Epstein
death was suicide by hanging. the 66 year-old was found dead in his jail cell in the 66 year-old
was found dead in his jail cell in Manhattan August 10th he had been taken off suicide watch
and attorney general William viruses officials have uncovered what he called a serious
85

irregularities guards on duty on the night of that teen's death accused of falsifying records at
sea was facing federal sex trafficking charges involving dozens of women and girls.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 16 • 8:18 AM

B_AUG_WASH_70

For the first time investigators are questioning the two guards assigned to watch suspected sex
trafficker Jeffrey Epstein in the hours before his death Here's NBC'S Lindsay Davis a source tells
ABC news the autopsy that scene revealed a broken highly bone in his neck which can be
Associated with strangulation or suicide this as we're now seeing glen maxwell accused in a
new lawsuit being one of F scenes alleged co-conspirators in public for the first time since the
millionaire was found dead in his jail cell according to the new York Post Maxwell was spotted
eating at a local In-N-Out restaurant in California and according to witnesses reading a book
about CIA operatives Maxwell has been accused by want vaccines alleged victims of recruiting
underage girls active sex slave for abstinent other man allegations Maxwell has to 9 Kony's time
8 17 actor Danny Masterson best known for his role on that 70s show all and the church of
scientology are being sued according to the lawsuit Masterson sexually assaulted for young
women in the church conspired to cover up.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 16 • 7:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_97

Suicide by hanging the finding today by New York City medical examiner for an autopsy on
Jeffrey City medical examiner for an autopsy on Jeffrey Epstein used bed sheets attest to the
top of a funk dad according to the new York times which also said he hung himself with enough
force to break several bones in his neck that disputes conspiracy theories that the disgraced
financier was murdered to protect powerful friends and enemies about who he may have had
incriminating information.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 16 • 8:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_98

New York city's medical examiner ruled Jeffrey Epstein's death was a suicide and he died
by hanging himself in his jail cell that he was found dead last Saturday at the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in Manhattan. he was awaiting trial on federal sex trafficking charges
involving underage girls as he had been placed on suicide watch in July after an
earlier suicide attempt but was not on it when he killed himself.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 16 • 5:02 PM

B_AUG_OREG_99

Jeffrey Epstein's state it's been sowed by two more women allegedly and alleging sexual abuse
it's at least the second major lawsuit to be filed against the state for wealthy financier
Committed Suicide by hanging himself in prison last weekend And his tongue wire has more the
86

plaintiffs identified simply as Jane Doe one engine doe't ke you say that they were victims of
testing alleged sex trafficking operation they say that they were promised money to give out in
a massage but both say they were sexually assaulted by asking during separate visits to his
Manhattan home they're suing the state home as well as 9 unnamed co-defendants 400 million
$ is million $ is the lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court comes just a day after another
accuser came forward in a separate lawsuit ever don't and it's less than a week after it seems
apparent suicide in Manhattan prison cell where he had been awaiting trial cell on federal sex
trafficking charges.
News Radio KEX
Aug 16 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_100

The autopsy results for accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein after careful review was a
statement from the office of the chief medical examiner said they determined that Jeffrey
Epstein’s death was a suicide by hanging it affirms their initial findings the day after Epstein was
found in his cell at NCC Manhattan there's still an investigation ongoing as to why Epstein was
left alone and largely unsupervised in the hours before his death.
KDRV (ABC)
Aug 16 • 6:31 AM

B_AUG_OREG_101

the federal communications commission is working on a new nationwide suicide prevention
and mental health hotline. the new hotline would be a three-digit phone number. senator ron
wyden has been pushing for the new hotline... as oregon's suicide rates are higher than the
national average. each year more than 800 people from oregon commits suicide. senator
wyden says it's a public health crisis. fcc new suicide hotline-uponfs on oregon's high suicide
rate, senator wyden says quote "this qualifies as a public health crisis. i will continue to press
for a three-digit number such as 6-1-1 that builds upon the long- time use of 9-1-1 as a
recognized number for emergencies.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 16 • 3:15 PM

B_AUG_OREG_102

New York city's medical examiner ruled that Jeffrey Epstein’s death was a suicide today
confirmed after nearly a week of speculation that the financier had hanged himself in his jail
cell that he was found dead in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York City
on August 10th it touched off outrage in disbelief over how such a high-profile prisoner could
have gone.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 16 • 8:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_71

Medical examiner New York releasing a summary of the autopsy is old son accused sex
trafficker Jeffrey Epstein determining his death was a suicide by hanging in a federal lockup in
87

Manhattan Jeffrey Epstein's defense attorneys said they would conduct their own investigation
into their client's death they said they were not satisfied with the conclusions of the medical
examiner who ruled the death a suicide by hanging they said they want to see any video if it
exists from the area around that steve cell they said their clients' safety was in the hands of
guards at the Metropolitan Correctional center and they said they were indisputable violations
of protocol.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 17 • 12:00 AM

B_AUG_WASH_72

the official autopsy report in jail House that has left many questions unanswered of wellconnected financier accused of sex crimes over decades correspondent Don Baylor Jeffrey
Epstein used bed sheets attached to the top of the bomb dead according to the new York times
which also said the autopsy said he hung himself with enough force to break several bones in
his neck that dispute conspiracy theories that the disgraced financier was murdered to protect
powerful friends and enemies about him he may have had incriminating information.
News Radio KEX
Aug 17 • 3:00 AM

B_AUG_OREG_103

The medical examiner in new York city rule of the autopsy and other evidence confirmed the
wealthy pedophile Jeffrey Epstein died by suicide in his cell in a federal lock up at choose
lawyers are not happy Jeffrey Epstein's defense attorneys said they would conduct their own
investigation into their client's death they said they were not satisfied with the conclusions of
the medical examiner ruled the death a suicide by hanging they said they wanted to see any
video if it exists from the area around that steve sell they said their clients' safety was in the
hands of guards at the Metropolitan Correctional center and they said they were indisputable
violations of protocol.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 17 • 7:14 AM

B_AUG_WASH_73

the results of the autopsy on accused sex trafficker jeffrey epstein in in a statement medical
examiner says it's been determined Epstein's death was a suicide by hanging in federal lockup
in Manhattan KBC aaron at-risk reports that Steans attorneys say they intend to conduct their
own death investigation Jeffrey Epstein's defense attorneys said they would conduct their own
investigation into their client's death they said they were not satisfied with the conclusions of
the medical examiner ruled the death a suicide by hanging they said they wanted to see any
video if it exists from the area around that steve cell they said their clients' safety was in the
hands of the guards at the Metropolitan Correctional center and they said there were
indisputable violations of protocol.

88

KXLY (ABC)
Aug 17 • 4:00 AM

B_AUG_WASH_74

we're learning more about the death of accused pedophile jeffrey epstein ...nearly a week after
the well-connected financier was found dead in his jail cell --investigators are shedding light on
his final moments.andy rose has more. jeffrey epstein's cause of death -- suicide by hanging.
that's according to autopsy results released friday by the new york medical examiner's
office.the report comes nearly a week after epstein was found dead in his manhattan jail
cell.the multimillionaire hedge fund manager was in jail awaiting trial on federal
charges.prosecutors accused epstein of operating a sex trafficking ring involving dozens of
underage girls.he had pleaded ánot guilty to the charges.investigators are still piecing together
what led to his death.initial reports on the autopsy reveal investigators were looking into
broken bones in epstein's neck -- injuries forensics experts say could happen when a person
hangs themselves or dies by strangulation.sources familiar with prison procedure said two
guards assigned to monitor epstein were supposed to check on him every half hour -- but on
the night of his suicide, initial reports indicate they failed to check on him for several hours.
officials said investigators are still trying to pin down what they were doing during the gap.both
the f-b-i and the justice department's inspector general are investigating the circumstances
surrounding epstein's death.
News Radio KEX
Aug 17 • 1:00 AM

B_AUG_OREG_104

the results of accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein's autopsy released by the new York medical
examiner NBC's stephanie Rama has details York's chief medical examiner ruling the multimillionaire who was awaiting trial on federal sex trafficking charges died from suicide by
hanging according to the new York times in essence autopsies he hanged himself with Conduct
their own death investigation the back-and-forth enough force he broke several bones in
debate over whether michigan congresswoman she had his neck the guards who were
supposed to check on to leave him every 30 minutes fail to do so.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 17 • 8:30 AM

B_AUG_WASH_75

New York city's medical examiner ruled Jeffrey F seen the death a suicide Friday confirming
after nearly a week of speculation of a financier faced with sex trafficking charges hanged
himself in his jail cell at scenes lawyers said they were not satisfied with the conclusions that
and that they would conduct their own investigation including seeking to obtain any video of
the area around esteem self from the time leading to his death.

89

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Aug 18 • 4:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_76

we thank you for joining us. right here in our state a group of mothers took to the streets to
take aim at lawmakers. they are demanding change. hi, everybody. tkpwhraud worry glad you
are with us. >> they want senators to pass laws to better control access to gun we are live in
everett with more on that call to action. suzanne? >> here in everett today, demonstrators say
100 people die every day because of guns. that is why they want universal background checks
and red flag laws. >> you are pledging to do everything in your power to end gun violence tell
me, enough. >> enough. >> in this crowd of demonstrators personal and tragic stories involving
guns. erin is a mother. >> my neighbor, a young man on my street, was able to purchase a
firearm and slot and killed his ex-girlfriend, two others and wounded another. >> reporter: west
stevens says his grandfather ended his life using a gun. >> i did not think about suicide by gun
as a form of gun violence. he used to live in nevada if there were red flag laws a year
beforehand there would not have been a way for him to acquire a weapon. >> reporter: jane
lost her niece in a shooting near uc santa barbara in 2014. >> i can work to help to make sure
no other family has to go through what i am going through. >> reporter: the recent mass
shooting in texas and dayton, ohio and another shooting at the garlic festival in california are
reasons why many weekend. are demanding action there they want congress to pass a federal
law requiring background checks for everyone who buys guns. they want a strong federal red
flag law. >> a temporary restraining order allowing families in law enforcement to ask a judge
to temporarily stop punch of a firearm when they are in crisis or posing a danger to others. >>
despite the recent shootings not everyone agrees with shootings from gun control. >> all of
these horrible things take place inside of the gun free zone areas. >> boyd is with citizens for
the right to keep and bear arms. >> we all want the same thing. we want criminal violence to be
stopped. we just have a different approach to how to go there. >> congress plan rick larson
cosponsors the bill that would support background checks for gun sales. he also supports gun
violence research. we are live in everett. komo news.
KOBI
Aug 18 • 6:09 PM

B_AUG_OREG_105

tonight---there are new details about accused sex trafficker jeffrey epstein's final days in jail.
the medical examiner ruled his death suicide by hanging but now his attorneys say they'll do
their own investigation. nbc's kathy park reports. tonight--jeffrey epstein's attorneys fighting
back against the medical examiner's ruling that their client died from a suicide by hanging...
writingit is indisputable that the authorities violated their own protocols.the defense team fully
intends to conduct its own independent and complete investigation "they're also prepared to
take legal action to obtain videos that may show the moments before epstein's death.cevallos
sot: the metropolitan correction center will respond to subpoenas, but they require a written
authorization from the client. in this case, that's a little complex because the client is no longer
living.friday's autopsy doesn't diminish the probe into how this could have happened to a high
profile inmate, who should have been checked by guards every 30 minutes.one of many
questions---magnified by startling new details about the conditions in jeffrey epstein's
90

manhattan jail cell.......reported by the new york times...di: .we talked to attorneys who've said
that their clients papers often get eaten by mice.there's often standing water sometimes with
feces or urine.the new york times interviewed law enforcement, lawyers and bureau of prisons
staff---who spoke about epstein's habits and attempts to extend his wealth even behind bars.di:
so he would spend almost every day, with his lawyers. usually would be 12 hours with his
lawyers and then he was outside of that, trying to put money in other inmates commissaries so
that he could, we're told so that he could try and buy protection.sources telling the times....the
one of many attempts to lessen the misery in jail.(-- anchor tag --)two more victims have filed
lawsuits against epstein's estate and an unnamed recruiter...claiming psychological trauma for
the alleged abuse, that happened 15 years ago.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
Aug 18 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_77

reporter: demonstrators here in everett today are demanding change to gun laws and they also
want congress to listen. a gun safety group called moms demand action held rally rallies around
the country today. the u.s. house of representatives passed a univerl background check. but the
senate has not considered the measure yet. gun safety advocates want the senate to pass laws
requiring background checks for all those that buy guns and pass a red flag law. one of the
moms explains what the federal laws would do. >> a quarter of americans that purchase
firearms without a background check. it is time to close that. suedes are two third -- suicides
are two thirds of our firearm deaths if we can stop someone from causing harm to themselves
or others detects would decrease. >> reporter: this year the washington state legislature passed
a record number of gun violence bills, promoting the safety storage of guns and gun ownership.
now one of the laws, it is intended for suicide risks. everyone believes background checks
should be a major for helping with mental health concerns.
KTVZ (NBC)
Aug 18 • 6:20 PM

B_AUG_OREG_106

Students in a wisconsin school have new information son on their i-d's this year ... all car suds
will have information about a students suicide crisis hotline. it's all in an effort to give st
themselves or their friends. lifesaving tool for either patrick and and her mom, robin, went to
the schoo elli l principal with the idea after one of elli's friends committed suicide earlier in the
summer. they say they want to help kids who need talk to. someone to t "i bet if he would have
known about it possibl ne." "we can't save everybody, but if we cany that he might have, like,
wanted to try to call someone ideas and help some, whether that is a simple id card, we just ne
need to pursue i t because this is the second leading cause of death in teenagers." robin and
ellhe program. i say they plan to petition for other schools to have t ### st a reminder that you
can find a variety of supp and juour website. just go to ktvzort help line numbers on dot com
and look in the talk.' ### community page under 'let's we'll be right back with a final check of
your forecast.

91

KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 18 • 12:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_78

senator and Democratic presidential candidate bernie Sanders today unveiled his criminal
Justice reform plan he tells npr includes ending the practice of keeping people in jail because
they don't have enough money to Post bail but what he proved that the people who are here
at the moment they're crying tears of they all were they have been convicted of nothing they
are in open court but cannot avoid it hair belt it's Sanders defended his vote for the 1994 crime
bill which is now blamed for mass incarceration he says it was bad legislation but included a 10
year ban on assault weapons Sanders argues the current system is unfair to people of color
addicts and the mentally ill and says he'll work to cut the prison population in half this is npr
the French government says it's trying to stem an epidemic of police suicides 64 officers have
died by suicide since the beginning of this year the most recent was last week jakes again 0
reports from paris police unions blame work conditions long hours for little pay and the lack of
mental health services for officers a policeman speaking anonymously to French TV said during
his 20 years of service he's known 17 colleagues who have killed themselves is from the bottom
of the ocean warming they never bring management into question he says they blame personal
problems too easily the problems exist because officers can't have a personal life security
forces have also faced harassment from yellow vest protesters even death threats
the government has promised a 24 hour helpline for officers but police say they need access to
private help not services Run by their employer the French military has also seen an increase in
suicides among soldiers in recent years.
88.5 KNKX
Aug 19 • 3:30 PM

B_AUG_WASH_79

federal prosecutors in New York filed papers in court to dismiss the indictment against
wealthy financier Jeffrey Epstein as NPR's Ryan Lucas tells us the move comes a week after the
scene killed himself in New York city federal jail absent was indicted in early July on charges of
conspiracy and sex trafficking of minors he pleaded not guilty and was being held in
the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York City pending trial on the morning of August
10th he was found dead in his cell the city's chief medical examiner later identified as a cause of
death is hanging and ruled it a suicide now the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern district of
New York which brought the case against Epstein has filed to dismiss the indictment and led to
his death they say they've tried to contact all of his identified victims the office has said its
investigation into have seen alleged crimes including any potential co-conspirators will
continue.
News Radio KEX
Aug 19 • 11:42 AM

B_AUG_OREG_107

according to the psychologist Peter Gray children according to the psychologist Peter Gray
children today are more depressed than they were today are more depressed than they were
during the during the great depression great depression they are more anxious than they
92

were they are more anxious than they were at the height at the height of the cold war of the
cold war a 2019 study published in the a 2019 study published in the Journal Journal of Abu
Zeid the of Abu Zeid the found that between 2009 and 2017 rates found that between 2009
and 2017 rates of of depression rose by more than 60% depression rose by more than
60% among those ages 14 to 17 and among those ages 14 to 17 and 47% among those ages
47% among those ages 12 to 13 12 to 13 this isn't just a matter of increased this isn't just a
matter of increased diagnosis diagnosis he's he's the number of children and teenagers who the
number of children and teenagers who were seen were seen in emergency rooms
with suicidal in emergency rooms with suicidal thoughts or having thoughts or having
attempted suicide doubled attempted suicide doubled between 2007 2015 to put it
simply between 2007 2015 to put it simply our kids are not our kids are not okay you know
what this is you know what this is this is this is the new York this is this is the new York times
they realize times they realize something is wrong they something is wrong they have the for
August idea have the for August idea why because they can't blame themselves they
have because they can't blame themselves they have destroyed the concept of
family destroyed the concept of family they have in venting and the psychological they have in
venting and the psychological ds orders and plug get people into orders and then plug get
people into them they have demonized man for how many years what's they have demonized
man for how many years what's the modern era for the modern era for a dozen traceable to
1969 1970 men a dozen traceable to 1969 1970 men fathers have been v Wade didn't
demonize fathers have been B Wade didn't demonize all that all that time many don't even
go time many don't even go to college anymore because to college anymore because I don't
want Get a cramp and about whom Get a cramp and about whom women's studies of the deal
with angry women's studies of the deal with angry when an when an angry over what
many angry over what many of Jo White and I think that of on Jo White and I think that that's
what the that's what the media has told them media has told them we've been talking about
this for 20 we've been talking about this for 20 years but there are more and more articles but
there are more and more articles like this in a like this in a bunch of leftist bunch of leftist
pieces they have shown for mainstream their they have shown for mainstream their
leftist websites so forth websites so forth as everybody every parent wants the best as
everybody every parent wants the best for their for their kids and they're start to kids and
they're start to think this is a screw ups think this is a screw ups situation I think it's becoming
very apparent to I think it's becoming very apparent to millennial parents of millennial kids get
kids are parents of millennial kids get kids are struggling in the red kid Hall in the rat shed
horrible circumstances of the horrible circumstances of the public school system public school
system one of the answers one of the am sure who's of this mess of this mess what's happening
to our children is home what's happening to our children is home schooling and it's not
just and it's not just conservatives and Christian oriented people who conservatives and and
Christian oriented people who are choosing to pull kids out of are choosing to pull kids out
public schools for public schools for get it's more complicated than I have the it's more
complicated than I have the time to get time to get into now all-in think into now all I think this
is just another there's this is just another there's so many so many stories today stories today in
mainstream media about how screwed up in mainstream media about how screwed up the
thing the thing is all par is all par in areas they have been in charge in areas they have been in
93

charge of and they have of and they have been running been running they just they just they
don't know why I say they don't know why I say they expected you talk B expected to talk B
they expected the they expected the implementation of all of the implementation of all of the
things they things they believe to lead to get told the entire to leave too utopian type results
and S dad result and insist they had an absolute an absolute mess has been created mess has
been created and step one is them record we and step one is them record we have ruined
his have ruined to try and childhood I'm saying this because it deserves to I'm say this because
it deserves to be detailed for be detailed for you even more halftime you even more than
enough time for now also for now also Alsup this side maybe get to tomorrow/
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 19 • 4:59 PM

B_AUG_WASH_80

U.S. attorney general william barr today announced the acting director of the federal Bureau of
prisons is being removed from office and more than a week after financier Jeffrey Epstein took
his own life while in federal custody attorney general william barr announcing today Hugo her
which will be reassigned that he was facing charges including child sex trafficking risk questions
raised about why EPS she was left unsupervised after having been on suicide watch previously.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 19 • 7:25 AM

B_AUG_WASH_81

paradoxically they also have some of the highest rates of depression and suicide and
some researchers believe altitude may be playing a role here reporter Ray Allen Michelle starts
with an odd experiment back in 1991 a crew of 8 people stepped into a series of sealed glass
rooms in arizona they didn't come out for two years in 20 minutes one of them was Mark
Nelson it was pretty radical experiment was called biosphere two and was a privately
funded experiment to recreate mini version of our ecosystem we fell in love with the world
3 Thing made sense and by Israel to accept there was a problem as the months went by the
oxygen level started dropping a lot they got trapped in buildings concrete it got down to about
14% which is about the oxygen availability you expect on top of 13000 foot mountain you know
we've kind of like lobsters in the pod but eventually they started feeling pretty bad they were
low energy several developed sleep back Nina 3 started talking to a therapist on the phone final
mission control injected a bunch of oxygen into the build and suddenly found myself running
laughing party time there are a lot of obvious reasons that Nelson and his crew members
experience is not at all representative of the real world from their specialized diet to the fact
that this was a group of people that basically said sure will be a boxer two years but in terms of
oxygen having real effects on their bodies it is a good example of something researchers think is
happening across the mountain West to I think that's totally appropriate example Brad kai this
is a psychiatrist at the University of utah he's among a group of researchers who think that the
lack of oxygen at altitude could actually be messing with people's mental health the thinking
goes something like this the rain need oxygen in order to function and needs more oxygen to
do things like communicate between parts of the brain handle reasoning and emotion they're
very close very complicated connections between those parts and we know from a lot of
94

other cities that are disrupted many keep board the pressure he is a lack of oxygen
could contribute to that in a few ways with holding energy from the reasoning part of our
brains could affect the ability to regulate emotions maybe it messes with serotonin production
also important for mood still none of this is certain it is still a fairly controversial
hypothesis country Eversholt because depression and suicide are really complicated even if
altitude does impact person suicide risk it's probably only a little sliver of the picture it's not
gonna be responsible for 100% of it any that's an emergency physician and researcher at
the University of Colorado school of medicine she also disrupt the Pistons on
Colorado's suicide Prevention Commission she doesn't really important to look at other factors
things like access to firearms access to behavior health care this sort of its potential stigma in
the society around asking for help were the types of people who choose to live and
often remote areas that took a closer look at the people who died by suicide low and high
altitude in 15 States and found they were different in a lot of ways from race and ethnicity to
firearm use the likelihood that they recently had some sort of crisis like losing their job
suggesting that it wasn't just the altitude explaining the difference and suicide rates but a
growing number of studies back up the idea that oxygen could be involved like one in Peru on
electrical workers one station at about 10000 feet had more symptoms of depression and
anxiety and sea-level colleagues or the study and a small group of Marines before during and
after a month of altitude training should more symptoms of depression so did medical students
moved higher up for residency given all these pieces of information the something any bets and
ranked highest are very certain of this is worth a much closer look and who knows maybe it
reveals something about how to treat people with depression at whatever their altitude for
NPR news and rail and Michelle the story comes from the mountain West news Bureau of
public radio collaboration and Let's remember suicide can be prevented if you're in crisis
called the National suicide Prevention lifeline at 102 to 7 3 talk or you can text talk to 7 4 won
7.1
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 19 • 3:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_108

Federal prosecutors in New York filed papers in court to dismiss the indictment against wealthy
financier Jeffrey Epstein as NPR's Ryan Lucas tells us the move comes a week after a teen killed
himself in new York city federal jail absent was indicted in early July on charges of conspiracy
and sex trafficking of minors he pleaded not guilty and was being held in the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in New York City pending trial on the morning of August 10th he was found
dead in his cell the city's chief medical examiner later identified as a cause of death is hanging
and ruled it a suicide now the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern district of New York which
brought the case against Epstein has filed to dismiss the indictment in light of his death they say
they've tried to contact all his identified victims the office has said its investigation into
alleged crimes including any potential co-conspirators will continue.

95

88.5 KNKX
Aug 19 • 7:21 AM

B_AUG_WASH_82

Mountain West is home to some of the happiest States in the country according to a recent
gallup poll paradoxically they also have some of the highest rates of depression
and suicide and some researchers believe altitude may be playing a role here reporter Ray Allen
Michelle starts with an odd experiment back in 1991 a crew of 8 people stepped into a series of
sealed glass rooms in arizona they didn't come out for two years in 20 minutes one of them was
Mark Nelson it was pretty radical experiment it was called biosphere two and was a privately
funded experiment to recreate mini version of our ecosystem we fell in love with the
world everything made sense and by Israel to except there was a problem as the months went
by the oxygen level started dropping a lot they got trapped in buildings concrete got down to
about 4 Sheen % which is about the oxygen availability you expect on top of 13000 foot
mountain you know we've kind of like lobsters in the pod but eventually they started feeling
pretty bad they were low energy several developed sleep back Nina 3 started talking to a
therapist on the phone final mission control injected a bunch of oxygen into the
building suddenly found myself running laughing party time there are a lot of obvious reasons
that Nelson and his crew members experience is not at all representative of the real world from
their specialized diet to the fact that this was a group of people that basically said sure will be a
boxer two years but in terms of oxygen having real effects on their bodies it is a good example
of something researchers think is happening across the mountain West I think that's totally
appropriate example Brent highest is a psychiatrist at the University of Utah is among a group
of researchers who think that the lack of oxygen at altitude could actually be messing with
people's mental health the thinking goes something like this the rain need oxygen in order to
function and any more oxygen to do things like communicate between parts of the brain handle
reasoning and emotion they're very close very complicated connections between those parts
and we know from a lot of other cities that are disrupted and many people with depression he's
a lack of oxygen could contribute to that in a few ways with holding energy from the
reasoning part of our brains could affect the ability to regulate emotions maybe it messes with
serotonin production also important for mood still none of this is certain the it is still a fairly
controversial hypothesis it's controversial because depression and suicide are really
complicated even if altitude does impact person suicide risk it's probably only a little sliver of
the picture it's not gonna be responsible for 100% of it annie that's an emergency physician and
researcher at the University of Colorado school of medicine she also disrupt the piston on
Colorado's suicide Prevention Commission she doesn't really important to look at other factors
things like access to firearms access to behavior health care for this sort of its potential stigma
in the society around asking for help were the types of people who choose to live and
often remote areas best a closer look at the people who died by suicide low and high altitude in
15 States and found they were different in a lot of ways from race and ethnicity to firearm
use to the likelihood that they recently had some sort of crisis like losing their job suggesting
that it wasn't just the altitude explaining the difference and suicide rates but a growing number
of studies back up the idea that oxygen could be involved like one in Peru and electrical workers
the one station about 10000 feet had more symptoms of depression and anxiety and sea-level
colleagues or the study and a small group of Marines before during and after a month of
96

altitude training they should more symptoms of depression so did medical student who moved
higher up for residency given all these pieces of information something any bets and brent
highest are very certain of this is worth a much closer look and who knows maybe it will reveal
something about how to treat people with depression at whatever their altitude for NPR news
and rail and Michelle the story comes from the mountain West news Bureau of public radio
collaboration and Let's remember suicide can be prevented if you're in crisis called the National
suicide Prevention lifeline at 102 to 7 3 talk or you can text talk to 7 4 won 7.1/
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 19 • 5:20 PM

B_AUG_OREG_109

In the wake of Jeffrey Epstein's death the Justice Department continues its shake-up of the
federal Bureau of prisons attorney general William bars supporting Dr. Kathleen Hawks fired
lead the Bureau of prisons a job she held previously in the Clinton and George W Bush
administrations are also appoint Dr. Thomas Kane his deputy director of the Bureau the
attorney general said to be livid over Epstein's suicide in the circumstances surrounding the
awarding of that new York city jail was temporarily reassigned several staffers were placed on
leave.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 19 • 6:52 AM

B_AUG_WASH_83

with suicides on the rise the U.S. government wants to make the national crisis hotline a lot
easier to reach once implemented people just need to dial 9.8 to seek help her currently the
National suicide Prevention lifeline is a 10 digit number 800 to 7 3 T a-okay collars are rooted to
163 national crisis centers where counselors answer to point two million calls last year a law
passed last year required the FCC to study assigning a 3 digit number for suicide Prevention like
9.1 for emergencies or 3 one won for city services the new number will be 9.8 now it's not in
action just yet but it will be implemented soon.
KREM (CBS)
Aug 19 • 4:05 PM

B_AUG_WASH_84

attorney will attorney general william barr has removed the acting director of the bureau of
prisons this comes after the jeffrey epstein suicide. the fbi the justice department are
investigating epstein's death while hanging by hanging while in federal custody. epstein was left
unsupervised when he took his own life in one of america's most secure federal prisons. and
britain's royal family is trying to distance themselves from the epstein scandal. new video has
emerged connecting prince andrew to epstein. the prince said he's appalled by recent sex
abuse claims against epstein the video allegedly shows prince andrew in epstein's map hatton
mansion waving goodbye to a young woman as peers out the door. the footage was
purportedly shot in 2010 this comes two years after epstein was convicted for soliciting
prostitution involving a minor. buckingham palace released a statement denying any
involvement by the prince with Epstein’s crimes.
97

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 19 • 4:47 PM

B_AUG_WASH_85

Jeffrey Epstein signed his will two days before he died by suicide the story maybe he's aaron
persky Jeffrey Epstein's last will and testament filed in the U.S. Virgin islands was signed August
8th two days before he hanged himself in his cell the document shows that teen transferred all
of his assets to trust called the 19th _fifty_ _three_ trust the will isn't signed by any event
scenes criminal or civil lawyers record the first signature belongs to a Brooklyn attorney marry
alcoa on Nero who was also a member of El chapo's defense team she declined comment to
nbc news about her representation of that steam but confirmed she met with August 8th and
as such was one of the last people to see him alive.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 20 • 5:16 PM

B_AUG_WASH_86

3 more women today filed suit against the estate of the late financier and convicted
sex offender Jeffrey Epstein ABC aired in Turkey joining us on the KOMO news live with details
and these are the first lawsuit geren since we learned some details about will Epstein just two
days before his suicide and maim name is a state as they try to get money from the 577 million
dollars’ worth of assets but that team put into a trust arranged seemingly two days before his
death by suicide did sell here in manhattan will was signed by an attorney who was also on the
defense team of the tourist drug Lord joaquin El chapo whose mind when know when I talk to
her she she declined to comment on the circumstances of her Association with that team but
was one of the last people to see him alive and debt will you think might have been
an indication to have him on suicide watch or well drafting up with old isn't necessarily
we don't assess the tape suicide watch but it is yet one more sign of perhaps where we're at 18
was back in again maybe the lawyer who signed it did not discuss his state of mind how he
seemed nonetheless be he will Us 577 million dollar’s worth of assets to mention days surviving
brother Mark Epstein whose been launching his own investigation into the death and it did not
specifically name any beneficiary of the trust but by putting all the assets in a trust a dozen sure
degree of privacy and now these 3 women are going after the state and to the women who are
claiming they were coerced into having sex with him while he was on work release from jail yet
this is an allegation that two of the 3 women made and it today it is disturbing allegation we've
heard before from a lawyer but this is the first time women have said publicly and conquer ties
to and him court documents they say that wall have steen was on work-release from the £ Palm
Beach County jail after he pleaded guilty to state sex I'm charges in 2008 they were flown to his
Florida office for the sole purpose of of of the sexual encounter that that if true will only add to
the suspicion of the work-release program and Wyeth he was allowed on the first place and
whether it was properly supervise them up now before both the state of florida and Palm
Beach County which both investigated one of them says they recall him wearing an
ankle monitor Yeah one of the women said they had sex while he was wearing an ankle bracelet
and opened taken of his work really is and now what we know there are a number of existing
lawsuits and then and yet more women may 8 opted to step forward if they they think they can
get the measure just this because in the
98

absence of now a criminal prosecution of that steam bed that maybe the only way to beat to
get there are allegations aired in a court of law are his assets safe now that they've been given
to the brothers in their antitrust part that can be accessed I believe in in the certain lawsuits
with the state specifically named crown to be on the hook for forever Steen alleged conduct
that that perhaps that would open up the state to use some financial burden.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 20 • 6:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_110

New details are coming to light about Jeffrey Epstein’s final days, we now know the wealthy
financer signed a will just two days before his suicide in jail. his incredible worth of nearly $600
million detailed in a document, his brother was his only error but according to the will he will
not get anything. instead it will all go into a trust created the same day the documents
signed. here is Morgan.>> reporter: this morning Jeffrey Epstein’s final will revealed. the
document signed just two days before he took his own life in jail. a copy filed in the u.s.
virgin islands where epstein owned property. the will values his estate at $577 million. 18
million more than what he told a judge last month. with 56 million listed as cash. in 18 million in
aviation assets, automobiles and boats. but it will likely be worth much more than that. the
category of fine arts and antiques and collectibles, valuables and other personal property still
needs to be appraised. assets that some women accusing epstein of sexual abuse are already
going after in the wake of his suicide. as scrutiny intensifies on what epstein left behind, the
u.s. prison system is facing new fallout from his death in federal custody. on monday the acting
director of the bureau of prisons reassigned by attorney general william barr. barr writing the
new leadership will lead bop with the competence, skill and resourcefulness they
have embodied throughout their government careers. the move comes days after the warden
of the prison where epstein died was temporarily reassigned. two guards who were supposed
to watch epstein have also been placed on leave. investigations now trying to determine
whether they were literally asleep on the job when epstein died. >> the u.s. attorney's office in
new york has also normally filed to have the criminal indictment against epstein dismissed, a
move expected in light of his death, but the u.s. attorney stresses he is still committed
to investigating other potential defendants.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 20 • 7:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_87

new lawsuit has been filed accusing Jeffrey Epstein of rape or other forced sex Sachs Re new
accusers are taking aim at the estate of Jeffrey Epstein including two women who claimed they
were coerced into set to that scene during his work released back in 2009 the alleged
incidents took place at his office and his home while it seemed was even wearing an
ankle monitor ABC is lindsay Davis and steam died by suicide Manhattan jail where he was
being held on sex trafficking charges

99

KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 20 • 9:15 PM

B_AUG_OREG_111

so that could include that point to a threat to themself that could include threat
of suicide and obviously could include a threat of violence against other people stackable better
we've been through different permutations of these kinds of laws to reduce gun violence for a
while it was an assault weapons ban that is now gone we have zero taking action against both
stocks after the mass shooting in Las Vegas there was a lot of talk at the Sandy Hook
about what should be done nothing got done after the shooting part of florida florida passed a
bunch of laws what about red flag laws was there a moment when they got kind of pushed into
the mainstream Yeah you said after parkland in particular so as I think you have the top 17
States and Washington D.C. have versions of these laws now I believe it was 8 States passed
these laws in the wake of parkland in March 28 teams over the last whatever that is 16
months or so these have become more and more popular in fact after parkland President
Trump himself pushed states to pass these laws many of them did including florida brian
emailed we don't know no laws set of laws can guarantee absolute safety from gun violence
but if red flag laws as well as background checks and limits on high fiery guns and
magazines can stop even one mass shooting or even save one child's life is that not worth some
inconvenience journey I think that's kind of the debate is at what point the inconvenience
becomes unconstitutional I mean the Supreme court has ruled that the second amendment
does guarantee your individual right to carry 8 personal firearm for your own self
protection Yeah that's right that was a big ruling of the Supreme court 4 4 along the report has
historically shied away from second many cases that wasn't a big one clarification there so
they Inc the question is juggling personal freedoms us communal protection and the question
of course how you define inconvenience like is inconvenient to take guns away from somebody
or is it unconstitutional but Where's the line that's right now that's the question and
the Supreme court has shown a willingness to perhaps take on more second amendment cases
now it's more right-leaning think we expect some further definition clarification from the
Supreme court in the coming years but right now it is interesting kind of murky area this is a
broad overly broad question asked how I gotta ask do red flag laws work how we assess
be successor viability of these laws of course it's a complicated question what we have so far in
terms of research points to the fact that these laws may reduce suicides Indiana and
Connecticut are two of their first two States to pass these laws them the most well study and a
couple different studies point to a reduction in suicides firearm suicides in those States now
I don't think that's not important or real suicide make up about 60% of gun death in this
country so that's very serious 66.6 0% nearly two-thirds so there often these red light laws are
often talked about in terms of mass shootings can they prevent mass shootings until yesterday
the answer was mostly low we don't really know what yesterday there were some
new research came out of the University of California Berkeley that that study California law in
which there were a handful of times about 14 times when California authorities confiscated
weapons under the States red flag law specifically to prevent mass shootings the
research found that in those 14 cases none of those people went on to harm themselves or
others so is there a little point there it's possible did anything about the research for your team
did it surprise you in terms of so many americans even gun owners supporting these kinds of
100

laws that's right enemy found 77% of Americans support the family initiated extreme risk
protection order 70% supported laws these laws are initiated by law enforcement that's a huge
majority when it comes to gun issues where there seems to be almost no compromise
was particularly interesting was support among gun owners we found two thirds of gun owners
in this survey support orders that initiated by family before I let you go speaking of no
compromise what about Congress was the conversation like there is this stand a chance of
moving forward with a very hot topic right now…
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Aug 21 • 3:16 PM

B_AUG_WASH_88

He repeatedly raised his pistol to his head yelling I am done this is how I'm going out to amanda

I heard that too and another threat he wanted to be taken now he announced the officers I
want you to take me out in other words suicide by cop at one point they all heard a single shot
back in the Woods and silence I did scream we all scream for net has Yeah Yeah that that Mayer
herself up there was relief she says when sean started yelling again the standoff for negotiation
went on for nearly two hours in the end he gave himself up was disarmed and taken to the
hospital for mental health screening he faces misdemeanor criminal charges so he chose not to
challenge the extreme risk order to avoid complicating that case last image declined to speak
with me on the advice of his criminal defense lawyer despite all that happened that night sean
girlfriend amanda bar forces taking his kind of length is not right she's confident he poses
absolutely no threat obviously much sean it was not okay Hey anyway and he has answered to
the consequences I do not feel on that man should have to relinquish his second amendment
for on many because of this talk to prosecutors and law enforcement officers in Vermont and
they'll tell you the red flag law has proved most useful in cases like this one where someone
poses a risk of suicide Vermont has a higher rate of suicide and suicide by gun and the national
rates in cases like these police chief says this red flag laws are an important to look it doesn't
always have to involve a person committing a crime it can just simply be a person Let's say
who's experiencing a mental health crisis involving a weapon where they are just
threatening harm to themselves suicide Prevention wasn't a catalyst for Vermont's red-flag lot
O that law came as a direct response to the threat of a mass shooting at a local high school
likewise the recent mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton have jump-started red flag bills in
Congress but David K help the States attorney for Orange County is dubious I don't for a minute
believe that red flag lies we know in any meaningful way interrupt the epidemic of mass
shootings in this country to do that Chao says would require a different much harder
conversation the tough part is that I can't think of a way to solve the Of without amending the
constitution I'm not suggesting that have languished rewrite the second amendment I don't but
it's worth having a conversation about our modern weapons the 18th century document and
what we can do to honor our history but also preserve life for ourselves and
future generations case no himself a gun owner and we're not having that discussion but we
should was to block it was inning to all things considered

101

KEZI (ABC)
Aug 21 • 4:13 PM

B_AUG_OREG_112

A local theatre-based company could use your help! "curtain call for all" is a suicide awareness
program at lcc who is trying to become a non- profit organization. in our project safe family they are using their theater abilities to help give training programs for crisis response. as part of
their fundraising, they are holding a theater play this friday and saturday called "lighting the
darkness: stories of suicide and carrying on" it starts at 7:30 and consists of three ten-minute
acts about suicide. But that's not all!. the event will also offer a sound healer, guided mediation
and a silent auction for gift certificates, gym memberships and ems tickets. william ford/
executive director of ccfa says "and until we can more comfortably talk about it and have these
conversations that people aren't afraid top bring it up and aren't afraid to express their feelings
about it, we're never really going to find those answers so our main goal is just to have people
walk away from here with conversation starters and have the ability and the ability to talk
about it" tickets are free at the door, but they are accepting donations. doors open at 6-45 for
the auction. the event will be at the blue door theatre on l-c-c's campus.
KDRV (ABC)
Aug 21 • 4:56 PM

B_AUG_OREG_113

a jackson county grand jury says the officers were justified in their actions. on july 18th- officers
responded to a call for a man threatening to kill himself on rogue river highway near exit 45.
police found tony mills with a gun. officer's say mills ignored their orders to drop the gun. mills
then raised his gun and fired a shot. an o-s-p trooper thought he was firing at the officers. he
shot mills. a medford police officer also fired a round within half a second of the troopers. an
autopsy revealed the shot that killed mills was actually from mill's own gun. officers believe
mills was trying to commit "suicide by cop." it was revealed during the investigation that mills
had left his home distraught that day. this was after he had been confronted about allegations
of sexual abuse. the grand jury made their decision in 15 minutes. the jury decided both officers
were justified in their use of force.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 21 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_89

tonight the embattled pierce county medical examiner on the record. answering questions
about the death of a puyallup teenager that he claims was a suicide. >> that bridge was not
easily jumped across. it was 12 feet to the next bridge. >> reporter: the teens family and police
say otherwise. >> we believe it was accidental. >> reporter: the critical role that this deposition
place with the medical examiner under fire. the death was ruled a suicide in 2017. >> kevin
mccarty found that the and he faces a legal challenge to the ruling. >> reporter: we have been
covering this story for month involving a teenagers death that the pierce county medical
examiner calls a suicide. we have talked to a lot of people except for the man that runs that
office that we have obtained exclusive video that reveals why he insists the death was a suicide.
>> sometimes it is not possible to establish that a person intended to die. >> reporter: in this
102

video deposition pierce county medical examiner doctor thomas clark compared the father
killed a 16-year-old to somebody playing russian roulette with a loaded gun. >> i would put
jumping off of a bridge in the same category as russian roulette and that the bridge is an
instrument in which one jumps off of it has a high probability of causing death. >> reporter: he
seen in surveillance video of 2017. he had a friend were setting off fireworks and taking blends
from an outdoor display. they were goofing around according to police and the family.
moments later the grainy video shows him on a pair of bridges crossing the puyallup river. the
camera did not capture the moment he jumped falling to his death. his father said that his son's
death was a tragic mistake by a careless teenager but not suicide. >> it was 100% an accident.
>> reporter: the police investigated and agreed that in the darkness he likely misjudged the
height to the ground and the distance between the two bridges. they asked clark to do another
review of the evidence that they gathered. >> this is a case where we differed with the medical
examiner. we believed it was more likely and accidental death. >> reporter: he has refused to
consider changing the death certificate. the families filed a demand in pierce county superior
court but during the deposition he said even if he did not know that the bridges were too high
or too far apart when he jumped and even if he did not intend to kill himself that night he still
viewshis death as a suicide. >> he voluntarily went off a bridge that he either did or did not
know what was on the other side to >> reporter: he also cited risk factors including adhd and
problems at home. there's no evidence that the teenager ever talked about taking his life or
attempted suicide in the past. after the death certificate was signed he repeatedly tried to
contact the medical examiner. clark refused to take his calls saying he does not have time to
talk to all of the families that reach out to him after death investigations. >> reporter: this is not
the only family that disagrees with thomas? we have spoken to several findings. families that
say he has chosen the wrong cause of death on their loved ones death certificates and in some
cases that has stopped police investigations into possible homicides but he refuses to review or
change thedeath certificates. >> he is the subject of three open complaints from current and
former employees who have told us that they question his methods and his decisions. kevin
spoke to an associate medical examiner in january who is now on administrative leave. He
she also claimed he performed limited autopsies in case sudden infant death syndrome. >> i
believe that he deliberately makes a decision to take shortcuts. >> kevin has reported on this
issue since january. all 11 of his reports on the medical examiner included with today's story on
kiro7.com.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 21 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_114

the federal judge overseeing the case against now deceased financier a convicted sex offender
Jeffrey Epstein has set a hearing for next week as NPR's Ryan Lucas explains the hearing
comes after prosecutors asked have the indictment against Epstein dismissed in light of his
recent suicide judge Richard M Berman has scheduled a brief hearing for next Tuesday in
federal court in manhattan he says that in a case like this in which the defendant has died
before any judgment has been reached the public could still have an interest in the prosecutors'
request to dismiss the indictment abstain was charged last month in new York with conspiracy
in child sex trafficking he pleaded not guilty and was fighting the charges before he hanged
103

himself in his cell in a federal jail in new York city his death brought it close to the case against
abstain other prosecutors say their investigation into possible co-conspirators continues as for
next week's hearing John berman says absent victims will be permitted to speak if they wish.
KOBI
Aug 21 • 5:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_115

russel larsen was initially charged with manslaughter, assault, and criminal mistreatment of
alivia rose allen. the charges now include... murder and sodomy. on monday august 5th, police
say they got a 9-1-1 call about a child who wasn't breathing in the eagle mobile park on south
shasta avenue. after being transported to rogue regional medical center, alivia died at the
hospital that night. an autopsy reveals she died from blunt-force trauma. investigators say
russel larsen was babysitting alivia at the time of her death. they say the 25-year-old was
reportedly in a relationship with alivia's mother and had recently moved into the home. rst time
friday. a public defender pleaded "not guilty" on his behalf. "do you wish to have the assistance
of an attorney? yes, i would." unlike larsen's emotional court appearance last week... he was
silent in court today. a defense attorney says he is currently on suicide watch. because of the
added murder charge... the judge has denied larsen bail. his arraignment on the new charges
was postponed to next month. live in studio, amanda rose, nbc5 news. a grand jury has cleared
the oregon state police trooper involved in a shooting last month. on july 18th, oregon state
police and the jackson county sheriff's office got a call about a suicidal man under the i-5
overpass in gold hill. the man was identified as 73- year-old tony mills of gold hill, and he was
armed. according to the district attorney's office mills raised his weapon and fired it... a half
second later a trooper fired his gun... hitting mills in the arm. the medical examiner determined
mills died by suicide, and the trooper's shot would not have been deadly. still, all officerinvolved shootings are presented to a grand jury to determine whether the officer was justified
in using deadly force. today it took them just 15 minutes to determine the shooting was
justified.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 21 • 5:09 PM

B_AUG_OREG_116

students at lane community college... want to give a voice to people who have been affected by
suicide. theater students created the organization "curtain call for all"... to help address suicide
prevention. they'll put on two performances this weekend... of "lighting the darkness". they
each include three ten minute plays. one looks at the spirit of a loved one who died from
suicide.. and giving permission to move on. another looks at a woman who is grieving the loss
of her husband who died from suicide. and... another is about the loss of a parent to suicide..
and the lifelong struggles that can come with it. william ford/ executive director of ccfa says
"the main goal is to start and maintain conversations about suicide. we don't have the answers
for how to stop suicide or how to prevent it, but we know that those answers are going to come
through conversations" trt 18 the show is happening friday and saturday night at 7:30. at the
blue door theater, on the lcc main campus. that's on east 30th avenue. tickets are free. they will
accept donations for production expenses and to help pay for future productions. doors open
104

at 6-45 for a silent auction -- where you can bid on gift certificates, gym memberships and ems
tickets.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 21 • 6:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_117

an investigation continues into the suicide of accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein in a New
York jail cell CBS steve Futterman says there's new information about procedural breakdowns
at the jail but Washington Post says at least 80 people in the Jeffrey Epstein was not to be left
alone a former high ranking prison official says it's perplexing for stricter order was not
followed questions have been asked since Sept he was found dead in his prison cell the New
York City medical examiner ruled that Epstein did kill himself the circumstances surrounding his
death of our being investigated by both the fbi and the Justice Department's inspector general
Steve Gutterman.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 21 • 6:08 PM

B_AUG_WASH_90

we have obtained a video deposition of the embattled medical examiner. doctor thomas clark is
in a legal battle with the family of a puyallup teenager.? claims that 16-year-old jordan gish died
by suicide when he jumped from a bridge over the puyallup river. the police and his family say it
was a tragic accident. during questioning clark compared his jump to playing russian roulette
with a loaded gun. >> i would put jumping off a bridge in the same category as russian roulette
in that a bridge is an instrument that up one jumps off of it it has a high probability of causing
death. >> the family has sued to force him to change the death certificate. there have also been
complaints filed with the washington medical commission.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 21 • 6:53 PM

B_AUG_OREG_118

with a growing number of suicides by veterans, and apt to help combat those suicides will
launch on veteran’s day, lauren reports. >> reporter: the veterans group q mission wants
operation pop smoke to be the new standard in first aid response for ptsd. >> being able to
retell before they get so far down that path that they cannot come back. and they are having
those flashbacks and the ptsd issues that are popping up they are not having a lot of cognitive
thought process. >> for a $12 yearly fee, 4-5 people can create a squad to create their own
support group and notify group members about the mental health crisis. three seconds of
clarity to hold down a button and send a signal can alert the squad members and get veterans
to counseling and resources. >> whatever that next step is we can get them there, so this
doesn't solve ptsd, this is a first aid response or suicidal ideations. >> signals range from a check
in, read for in serious need with gps location said between members, he says while it is good for
individuals, he really wants to get the tool to veteran resource networks. he is connecting with
several veteran resources including coos county-based operations rebuild help. >> we will
purchase a corporate license for it. that way it can help. >> the app launches veterans day
105

november 11, reporting i am lauren.>> reporter: he will be in north bend thursday for the
honor 22 veterans suicide prevention training at 5 pm at bay area church of the Nazarene.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 21 • 7:03 PM

B_AUG_WASH_91

obtained consecutive video of pierce county's embattled medical examiner on the record.
thomas clark answered questions about the death of a puyallup teenager he claimed was a
suicide. his family disputed that, and so do police. doctor clark is now facing a legal challenge to
that ruling. >> reporter: we've been covering this story for months. we've talked to several
people involved in this case. but we've never talked to the man who runs that office. the pierce
county medical examiner. we've obtained exclusive video that reveals why he insists this this
teenager's death was a suicide. >> sometimes it isn't possible to establish that a person
intended to die. >> reporter: in this video deposition obtained by kiro7, pierce county medical
examiner, thomas clark, compared the fall that killed jortan to someone playing russian roulette
with a loaded gun. >> i would put jumping off of a bridge in the same category as russian
roulette, in that a bridge issa an instrument, if one jumps off of it, has a high probability of
causing death. >> reporter: gish is seen on this video in the early morning hours of july 6th,
2017. he and a friend were recorded running around empty parking lots and closed businesses
near meridian in puyallup, setting off fireworks and taking some balloons from an outdoor
display. goofing around, according to police and his family. moments latergraainy video shows
him on a pair of bridges crossing the puyallup river. the camera didn't capture the moment he
jumped, fallig to his death. his father told kiro7 in march his son's death was a tragic mistake by
a careless teenager but not suicide. >> 100% an accident. >> reporter: puyallup police
investigated and agreed. in the darkness, he likely misjudged the height to the ground and the
distance between the two bridges when he jumped. they asked clark to do another review of
the evidence they gathered. >> this is a case where we differed with the medical examiner. we
believed it was more likely an accidental death. >> reporter: but clark has refused to consider
changing the death certificate. the family filed with the pierce county superiority. during his
depth, he said even if jordan didn't know the bridges were too high and too far apart when he
jumped, he still views his death as a sued. >> jordan voluntarily went off a bridge. he either did
or did not know what was on the other side. >> reporter: he cited other factors including adhd
and problems at home. but there's no evidence the teenager ever talked about taking his own
life or that he attempted suicide in the past, according to investigators. after death certify was
signed by clark, michael repeatedly tried to contact the medical examiner, but clark refused to
take his calls saying he dn't have time to speak to all of the families who reach out to him. >> it
doesn't matter whether a family member says oh, i don't think he would have killed himself. >>
reporter: other families say clark ruled their loved ones died from accidental death or suicide
when they believe they could be the victims of a homicide. in each case, clark refuses to review
the cases or change his findings. >> kevin is tracking allegations against dr. clark expense thifl
year.

106

KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 22 • 2:44 PM

B_AUG_WASH_92

officials trying to force prison workers to cooperate in the investigation is underway and the
death of Jeffrey Epstein about 20 prison workers have now declined interviews with
investigators and they say they're all getting lawyers officials are looking into how epstein was
able to kill himself only a couple weeks after previous suicide attempt.
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 22 • 8:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_119

the latest now on the investigation of the suicide of Jeffrey abstain from CBS news
correspondent Norah O'Donnell more than a dozen corrections officers and staff have received
a Grand jury subpoenas in connection with the federal investigation esteemed death the
disgraced financier apparently hanged himself in his jail cell earlier this month as he awaited
trial on sex trafficking charges involving underage girls
News Radio KEX
Aug 22 • 9:48 PM

B_AUG_OREG_120

a network suspect in El Paso Texas Ms. shooting has been placed on suicide watch and
that means he will have committed suicide within 3 days fool me once with the
Ole suicide watch it you won't fool me twice headline on the news for the last hour has been
in prison shake-up after abc's teen's suicide O okay to say one thing and stay won't
commit suicide he did you know there's just that one that happened but after that we made
some big changes we have you got one job no elected new kill himself Hey Hey Hey jazz himself
in done asked did dad share a crab what we do I'm sorry I took 3 are even less funny I can't take
a three-hour nap and nobody expected me to keep anybody from killing themselves I can't
manage to nap for 3 hours without worrying and what's going to happen with the radio show
how if your whole job I Segarra there don't let him kill himself okay sharp give his salary you get
pinched and you get a uniform of baggage hold all what your job don't let that guy comes up
that is correct that's correct less as a cowboy and don't let it kill himself okay proposed to
everyone Washington they watch TV but every commercial break I stages returning to Hey Hey
it carry yourself digit and he'll go know when he says no you know he didn't kill himself okay
how do you fall asleep or 3 hours all one big job Arson 3 hours of napping even remotely a nap
for 3 hour I guess technically you only needed the map for 20 minutes from tip for him to kill
himself how he nowhere near that and how would you know unless you count all right with us
as we are glad you are not opposed to get yourself and not Post let you I will go ahead and take
amount you go I coat I I'm a bang 3 hours I don't
kill yourself okay you see the sheets over eric and Don all know it would clear because I'll get in
big trouble Al well and in fact ahead of prisons gotten so much trouble that he got moved he
got moved from one prison to the moon Wow that's amazing what severe punishment for an
epic failure on an international scale you he still has to draw the same paycheck but to show up

107

at a different prison and the federal government is to hug off the so demanding and exacting in
their standards you name that because he F stuff in the biggest way possible.
News Radio KEX
Aug 22 • 6:58 PM

B_AUG_OREG_121

a new suspect in El Paso Texas Ms. shooting has been placed on suicide watch and that means
he will have committed suicide within 3 days fool me once with the Ole suicide watch it you
won't fool me twice headline on the news for the last hour has been in prison shake-up after
abc's teen's suicide O okay to say one thing and stay won't commit suicide he did you know
there's just that one that happened but after that we made some big changes we have you got
one job no elected new kill himself Hey Hey Hey jazz himself in done asked did dad share a crab
what we do I'm sorry I took 3 are even less funny I can't take a three-hour nap and nobody
expected me to keep anybody from killing themselves I can't manage to nap for 3 hours
without worrying and what's going to happen with the radio show how if your whole job I
Segarra there don't let him kill himself okay sharp give his salary you get pinched and you get a
uniform of baggage hold all what your job don't let that guy comes up that is correct that's
correct less as a cowboy and don't let it kill himself okay proposed to everyone Washington
they watch TV but every commercial break I stages returning to Hey Hey it carry yourself digit
and he'll go know when he says no you know he didn't kill himself okay how do you fall asleep
or 3 hours all one big job Arson 3 hours of napping even remotely a nap for 3 hour I guess
technically you only needed the map for 20 minutes from tip for him to kill himself how he
nowhere near that and how would you know unless you count all right with us as we are glad
you are not opposed to get yourself and not Post let you I will go ahead and take amount you
go I coat I I'm a bang 3 hours I don't kill yourself okay you see the sheets over eric and Don all
know it would clear because I'll get in big trouble Al well and in fact ahead of prisons gotten so
much trouble that he got moved he got moved from one prison to the moon Wow that's
amazing what severe punishment for an epic failure on an international scale you he still has to
draw the same paycheck but to show up at a different prison and the federal government is to
hug off the so demanding and exacting in their standards you name that because he F stuff in
the biggest way possible there's nothing worse could happen on that dude walked then
prisoner number one the most famous prisoner in no world are in America anyway rat now
more so than El chapo the one Yeah there has to be brought to trial but has been left glove he
still has been kept alive so he didn't go in there and face charges okay I did so your job you get
this budget get the building you can always do that okay Melissa restored if you have to you go
down there and sleep outside his cell I don't care this is Hannibal Lecter Hugo let this guy that
would clear Yeah okay Hey warden we just got news he tried to kill himself last week of media
Yeah I don't know what else your do and but he's not allowed to kill himself any try to I'm
telling gas come Bowl Yes we already had an attempted suicide and we got down on suicide
watch what happens all you know he was on suicide watch last week but last couple days he's
been a happy go lucky so we figured we'd take a three-hour nap O or worse so mad you won't
be a federal employee no you know organ and then in how I decide Here's your office I guess
we're going to do fire me mendola up barry you good grief about our government serious off
track here sure all the stuff the teachers your paycheck all the pain and chair and everything
108

you did it's all nice Yeah we screwed up the worst possible way Yeah so instead of the tribe in
your office you know 10 miles up the road in your office is a bit over same nice office nice
pension nice paycheck but is still driving here you've got all their Wow has a pretty crappy I
guess I'll have plenty of time to think about what I did wrong Yeah Yeah you will have plenty of
time to think about what you did wrong in your good job making a bunch of money with the big
pension where your screw up kobe OK but Here's I needed to do and in order a shake-up in
prison Yeah we're not let anybody else kill themselves will there were a lot of people trying to
those those anyway I guess I like I like to feel like You know I like to feel like I've got a vision for
we've got an agenda the future if you bring me another jeffrey have stained I won't let them kill
himself this time are you kidding me if vice grip did this if this was a movie he goes yard just
jumped the shark it's impossible to believe prisoner number one the entire nation or walls to
rip Bhagat sack off and throw it in his mouth and kicking balls there's no way he led him kill
himself because that's not real quick I think he took his bed sheet and hung himself that's not
one of those but I looked away.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 22 • 5:56 PM

B_AUG_WASH_93

another troubling report this one from Harvard medical school finds the suicide rate among
young people here in the United States continues to soar the study's lead author said our new
information shows that's suicide among adolescents has reached its highest recorded level for
shows there's especially an increase in recent years an adolescent males exactly why there's
been such an increase remains a topic of debate but the chief psychologist equated health
system in atlanta where I work as a nurse surgeon says it appears to be for a number of reasons
including increased rates of anxiety depression technology also our families and communities
are as tight as it used to be you really do need to look out for one another.
News Radio KEX
Aug 25 • 2:19 PM

B_AUG_OREG_122

steen clinton's body and pedophile was found dead hang allegedly is in his jail cell by suicide
and was on suicide watch because you try this two weeks ago I'm here to say I'm skeptical I was
so guys suicide watch and day at a prison in Orange jail in Manhattan just ends up doing it
anyway like to go to events Alaska installed to be high enjoy doing first time Let's call O of living
the dream my friend glad you called it would happen I got up off for fear if I'm allowed to name
met with a couple one fact is flying here about the situation in what's the name of the store
what has been a source ABC news not go gut call okay that's ABC news you can use it was
placed on suicide watch following the July 23rd and for their fine with that of gone on food 5
walks at the time of his death ever reporter she except for the ABC report the you're talking
about says he was still on suicide watch ABC knows for what what what paper conversational
purpose for maybe fees correct in his pocket with the corner of the end when the report comes
I would like to know who it was they took off suicide watch that's true because there's no way I
have two weeks ago tried to kill himself in a high-profile case like this wouldn't take it off it's
interesting looking up.
109

KONG-SEA
Aug 25 • 12:12 PM

B_AUG_WASH_94

you probably can't watch an action movie or a tv crime show and not see people getting killed.
of course, they're actors and they're only pretending. but, still hardly a day goes by someone
die on screen. that we don't see fortunately, it's rare to lose someone in real life, but it does
happen and while we don't like to think about it, there are times when someone we love will
die and we'll feel that pain of loss called grief. how to cope with that grief is the subject of this
next report. - i lost a pet a couple years ago. it almost felt like it wasn't real, like you wouldn't
believe something like that would happen. - about two years ago i lost my grandfather to
cancer and it made me feel very upset through school a lot, and i wasn't able to get because i
would always be thinking about him. his picture hanging in my room i have and i have a poster
that says, always in my heart, always forever my world. and i have a little, i have like the
birthday cards he used to send me, the christmas cards, i have everything. whenever we drive
passed his house i still see him and it kinda messed me up emotionally, because i always still
miss him. - no question about it, losing someone we care about hurts and it can hurt very
deeply for a while. people experience grief in different ways. for example, they may feel it's
hard to eat or even breathe. they may feel tired a lot and unable to focus. rtunately, we
eventually get over our grief and life returns to normal, but the more you know about grief the
better you'll be able to deal with it. whether for yourself or someone else. to help us with that
is author and grief expert, megan devine. she wrote the book, "it's ok that you're not ok."
welcome. - thanks for having me. - adults believe that they usually know what's best, but you
believe that teens are often more skilled than grown-ups when it comes to grief. can you
explain that? - sure. so i think grief is another one of those times where kids actually might
know better than the grown-ups. one of the reasons for that is that i think that teenagers are
much more comfortable talking about weird or uncomfortable things. sometimes, i think the
grown-ups get a little worried. they try to jump in correct things or cheer you up and give you
advice or and that's not really the way that grief works. - yeah, when a person is grieving they
often get advice, especially advice they didn't ask for. how do you recommend teens deal with
that? - unsolicited advice is everywhere. it's a really big deal inside grief, because we're so, kind
of, weirded out about pain or sadness or anger or suffering or any of those things. experiencing
that stuff, so if you're most people will jump in and tell you what you should do about it. you
should write about it, you should remember that somebody had a great life, you should try
smiling sometimes, right? all of that is unsolicited advice and it's not helpful. one really good
thing that you can say back when somebody gives you unsolicited advice is to say, i actually
don't need help with that one. it's much more helpful if you just listen to me instead of
correcting me. - i can relate to that. so grieving is normal, but how do we know when grief isn't
normal anymore? - that's such a great question. about grief in this culture, because we don't
tend to talk nobody's really sure what's normal and what isn't. the big thing to remember is
that just because it feels uncomfortable, doesn't mean there's anything wrong with grief. grief
as a whole is really normal. the only time where you might wanna make sure in with somebody
that you're checking is if you're feeling like harming yourself or harming others. that doesn't
mean that you're suddenly abnormal, it just means that you might need what you're going
through. some extra support processing - what should we do to get help? thing to do is, - i think
110

the first one to remind yourself that you're normal. it doesn't feel very normal, because it can
feel messy, your emotions might be all over the place, but reminding yourself that those things
are normal, honestly that helps. so, there's one thing. the other thing is to find places where
you can tell the truth about how you feel and places where you can ask any questions you have.
sometimes, you have an adult that you trust. sometimes, it's your peers or professional places
like the national suicide prevention helpline might be a good place. whether or not you're
feeling like harming yourself, just because they know some good places to check in. the thing to
remember is that you deserve support that makes you feel honored and heard no matter what
you're experiencing, so don't be afraid to keep asking for help. - thank you, megan. - you're
welcome.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
Aug 26 • 7:45 AM

B_AUG_OREG_123

utah has one of the highest rates of suicide in the country Eric Newman had never station KTVI
and salt Lake city set out to learn how people work to prevent suicide in a state with a strong
gun culture the town of vernal sits in the high desert of northeast Utah the land is windy and
dry does it with oil and gas fields and calleri anxious walking into the vernal like for gun-show
you can hear pops from a corner where people shooting pellet guns for self defense course the
table covered with shotguns hunting rifles and a few assault-style rifle one booth for women
giving out free gun locks people that thread through guns prevent bullets from being loaded
right Robin matches here with northeastern counseling said the giveaways early to start a
conversation about suicide I try how much of that hard life it's the first time Hatch has done this
and gunship he's also giving up 3 guns Sox pitcher fabric sleeves to slide Over gun Persian
printed with a number for a suicide hotline so I Interesting you have got soft you're like Hey his
rival is you guys like you Lou Lou thank you okay Yeah health experts say reasons for northeast
daytime high suicide rate include limited access to mental health services and the
unpredictability of working in ranching or oil in gaps and the stress of those jobs Bell Middleton
talk oil and gas safety and nearby technical college injury American people have drawn an
image of Mormons whole thing today add to that higher rates of gun ownership that he had
rollins pastor in a nearby town he also works part time as an instructor for the NRA the classes
he explains how gun owners can intervene for each other during a mental health crisis I've done
it a couple times a pastor durant gone some these houses set look may need to listen to me for
a minute I know talking about please I promise I'll keep it in my safe but I'm not gonna we're
Cairo he was 15 his father killed himself with a gun is very tragic but you know I never hated the
gone I knew that it was just his desperate moment and then you just chosen in Cairo can draw
on this tragedy to connect with people who are in crisis someone else was a similar approach is
a Republican state Representative Steve you listen I lost 3 extended family members to suicide
all firearm suicides a man uses his sponsored bills dealing with firearms suicide Prevention and
mental health services in utah he calls these issues nonpartisan but he's also careful with his
strategy he describes advice he got from a politically liberal friend and public health about how
to bridge the gap on guns they can't choose schools of thought on fire arms and those two
schools of thought if they were circles overlap into small hole and map Oval a culture of safety
she is I would recommend to you well within that all formats I try to do it's a strategy that also
111

works for Robin Hatch along with co-workers she's also got but that doesn't stop us from trying
to reduce suicides you need to know your community and you need to address it in a way that
your community will accept it compared to others at a gun show their table was less busy still
they gave a lot of gun locks and guns Sox with the hope that somewhere Sunday those tools will
help someone pause for a moment and instead ask for help for NPR news I'm Eric Newman in
salt Lake city utah and story comes us through a partnership with NPR case you gr Kaiser else
nears suicide can be prevented if hearing crisis or knows someone who is please call the
National suicide Prevention lifeline.
KVAL (CBS)
Aug 26 • 5:41 PM

B_AUG_OREG_124

today the departments of defense and veterans’ affairs began anff important meeting in
Nashville to discuss new ways to preventle military suicides. about 20 veterans take their own
lives each day. a hotline launched in 2007 has answered more than 3.5 million calls sending
emergency help to nearly 100,000 people. dean reynolds gives us an inside look. >> are you
having any suicidal thoughts today? have you ever attempted suicide? >> reporter: at the
veteran's crisis line in canandaigua, new york, the calls come in all day and all night. >> can you
put the knife in a safe place? >> what did you do with the nail gun? >> reporter: 1700 calls
every day from veterans on the brink.ra cbs news was given rare access to the v.a.'s responders
and their literally life-saving conversations. >> right now, you are having thoughts of suicide and
attempts to end your life. so i want to get somebody out to you. >> reporter: 20 veterans take
their lives every day in v america.ay 6,000 a year. personal finances, broken relationships and
loneliness are all factors. >> you have to deal with all of them. >> reporter: responder terrance
davis, a navy veteran himself says he always tries to answer by the second ring. what's the
stress level for you? >> the stress is, man, it is highly stressful. >> reporter: former sergeant
danny o'neel knows that feeling. santa cruz, california, may be a long way from the battlefield
but for him and his men, sadr city iraq is close by. s >> it was hell on earth. it was the most
dangerous placeel at the time.la >> reporter: in 2006, his unit lost nine men in the fighting but
back home, 14 have died at their own hands. o >> the guy started isolating and drinking and
doing things that they thought were helping them cope and it lead to depression and suicide.
>> reporter: o'neel, who attempted suicide in 2012, today describes it as the new enemy. with
isolation as its accomplice. it's that missing connection that danny o'neel is seeking and it is why
he now arranges surfing reunions like this one for his fellow warriors. >> when we're together
we feel that sense of family and that sense of team that we miss.an >> reporter: what is it
about the water, do you think? >> i've heard that the pacific has no memories. for me that's
powerful because i can take iraq out there and i can give it to the ocean and i don't have to
carry it around any more. >> have you been having these thoughts for awhile? >> reporter:
back in new york at this very hour, the v.a.'s responders are also trying to lift that burden, one
call at a time. >> how do you want to work through this today? >> reporter: dean reynolds, cbs
news, canandaigua, new york. >> dickerson: we have posted a d list of resources for suicide
prevention on our website at cbsnews.com.

112

FM News 101 KXL
Aug 26 • 6:14 AM

B_AUG_OREG_125

a hiker is dead after a false 100 feet at Smith rock state Park a man fell while making his way
down the climber's path forward that northeast lower courts over the weekend witnesses say
he tripped on its way down the Deschutes County sheriff's office says a hiker was pronounced
dead at the scene he says he did it to show people that death with dignity works when Robert
Fuller found out he had throat cancer he decided to end his life with fatal drugs that is legal in
Washington any other States including Oregon the story's been documented by the Associated
Press they spent time with Mr. Fuller and family as they spent their last days together I
interviewed him the day before he died Fuller said I know this is hard here on Monday he said
death was not a frightening for him and he did not want to suffer polar who was 75 administer
the drugs to himself surrounded by friends.
KONG-SEA
Aug 28 • 1:42 PM

B_AUG_WASH_95

if you have a teenager or you're watching and you are a teenager, escaping from social media,
it's almost impossible, but experts have tips on how to help. bianca castro reports. >> debbie
sees the effect of social media firsthand at home and at work. >> it's a part of life now. it's going
to come up all the time. >> the executive director at the counseling place in richardson.
counselors intervene when children and teens fall into a dark place. police also call on them
during possible suicide calls. >> they go into a group chat or direct messaging with others that
may be feeling the same. and they stay in that dark place and they don't get out. >> experts say
a negative comment or a screen shot or video that goes viral can have the same mental distress
experienced by an adult who's lost a job. it's because teens lack maturity and experience. >>
kids don't see the future like adults do. so when they're miserable, they think they're going to
always be miserable. >> that's why psychiatrists say parents should talk with their teens openly
about what happens on social media accounts. >> it's so easy to say it will get better. you're
going to be fine. don't worry about that. it's not a a big teal. and really the kid, that invalidates
their world view or their lense as you said. so really, hearing them. helping them feel heard. >>
parents should talk with their child's school if they suspect cyber bullying, and set stronger
restrictions on their teen's social media use. even if it's not the popular rule at home. >> there
are so many parents that say that's the way it is now. that's just the way it is. it's the way it is
because we let it. then i get judged and people don't want to talk to me. >> when i'm trying to
do things for your mental health and put restrictions and not just let you be immersed in your
phone. and there's other parents that won't do that. it's frustrating for me. it makes it hard for
me.

113

KHQ (NBC)
Aug 28 • 6:12 PM

B_AUG_WASH_96

getting the help he needs at a mental health facility... because police say he tried to jump off a
bridge. the only reason he didn't... is because a police officer talked him down. officers shared
these photos from their body cameras... showing the man climbing over a guardrail and
threatening to jump onto the highway. moses lake police sergeant jeff sursely spent 25 minutes
talking to him... and finally the man agreed to come back over the fence... and get help. if you
or someone you know is struggling with suicide... help is always available. you can call the
national suicide prevention helpline 24-7.... at 1-800... 273... 82-55.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 28 • 4:35 PM

B_AUG_OREG_126

right now, north bend police department is asking for the publics help in locating this missing
man right here. this is 69-year-old kim simpson griffin of north bend this picture is from several
years ago and his family say he has lost weight and his beard has grown out more since this
picture was taken. he was last seen on friday august 23rd at his home in airport heights. he is
listed as missing and endangered and believed to be suicidal and in possession of a knife. his
family say when they last say him he was wearing a dark colored hat. black shirt and dark
colored pants with white tennis shoes. he is five-foot--- ten inches and weighs about 130pounds. north bend police say that if you see griffin...do not approach...call 9-1-1.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 28 • 5:06 PM

B_AUG_WASH_97

a 15-year-old should not be out wandering and i. >> reporter: with doctor thomas clark ruled
the death of 16- year-old jordan gets a suicide his father desperately tried to contact him
helping to change his mind. he said after repeated calls somebody else at the medical
examiner's office told him surveillance video provided conclusive evidence that his son took his
own life. it showed gordon gish goofing around at 3:30 in the morning goofing around. >> it is
grainy and distant and the resolution. >> reporter: it was not until after michael gish filed a
lawsuit that the dn aand several reports that clark finally reached out to explain his finding to
the family. in a letter dated yesterday he stands by his claim that the teenager committed
suicide even if he did not intend to take his own life. it is my opinion that an average person
would understand that jumping off of that which would carry a high risk of harm or death. if he
approached the bridge knowing the height and distance from the adjacent bridge he would've
understood the risk. >> i would put jumping off of a bridge in the same category as russian
roulette. >> reporter: he ended the letter writing the death of a child is one of the worst
experiences a parent could have and i wish there was something i could do to make it easier.
michael maintains that his son showed no warning signs that he wanted to buy. >> his friends
got a hold of us and said he was not suicidal. >> reporter: the family has sued because they
want to change the death certificate for the very reasons that they are mind. they say all of
these reasons are wrong. they have a hearing coming up before a judge on september 27. >>
114

kevin's ongoing coverage of complaints against the pierce county medical examiner can be
found in our story right now.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 28 • 7:07 PM

B_AUG_WASH_98

the family in a legal battle with the pierce county medical examiner, they finally heard from him
two years after the death of a loved one. kevin mccarthy has tracked complaints against dr.
Thomas clark and has the letter the doctor wrote explaining his controversial ruling. reemack
this letter is the first time the family of jordan has heard from the medical examiner after he
died two years ago. police and the family claimed that death was accidental. as you will hear
from this letter, the medical examiner refuses to change his mind. >>15-yeyear-old should not
be out wandering around at night. reemack when the medical examiner, thomas clark, ruled
the death of the 16-year-old a suicide, his father desperately tried to contact him, hoping to
change his mind. he says after repeated calls, someone else at the office told him surveillance
video provided exclusive evidence that his son took his own life. that video showed jordan with
a friend late at 3:30 in 2017 goofing around. in a recent deposition clark admitted the video did
not clearly show the moment he died. >> it is grainy and distant and it is low resolution.
reemack it was not until the lawsuit, the deposition and several reports by kiro7 that clark
reached out to explain his finding to the family. in a letter dated yesterday and obtained by
kiro7, clark stands by his claim that the teenager committed suicide, even if he did not intend to
take his own life. it is my opinion that an average person would understand that jumping off of
that bridge would carry a high risk of harm or death. if jordan had approached the bridge
knowing the height and distance he would have understood the risk, just as he claimed under
questioning. >> i would put jumping off of a bridge in the same category as -- russian roulette.
he ended the letter saying the death of a child is one of the worst experiences a parent can
have and i wish there was something i could do to make it easier for you. michael maintains
that his friend his son showed no warning signs. >>>'s friends got a hold of us and said he was
not suicidal. the family has filed suit, saying the reasons outlined in this letter are simply wrong.
they want the death certificate changed they have a hearing before a judge on september 27
red >>> the reporting on the accusations against dr. thomas clark began in january when the
associate m.e. filed a complaint against him. >> i believe that he deliberately makes a decision
to take shortcuts. >> she claimed that he performed limited autopsies and failed to send bodily
fluids for testing and some deaths ruled undetermined. and was put on paid leave the next
month by county executive, accused of ethics violations and insubordination. her lawyer
accused clark, and another employee, of fabricating the evidence in may. in july, the state
medical commission expanded its investigation of clark . that was based on quinn's complaint.
and we have learned last week that he admitted under oath that he had not read the
complaint. we have links to all the past stories on the medical examiner in his latest story on
the transept kiro7 news app.

115

News Radio KEX
Aug 28 • 1:30 PM

B_AUG_OREG_127

Oregon Senator Ron Wyden continues to make suicide Prevention one of his top prize reduce
we're attacking this battle on a variety of fronts because suicide is a public health crisis
the number of suicides in Oregon is above the national average Wyden wants the federal
communications Commission to dedicated 3 digit how blind to get help for people
considering suicide Oregon's lines for life provides a suicide Prevention hotline and acts as a
backup the National suicide Prevention hotline.
KVAL (CBS)
Aug 28 • 12:05 PM

B_AUG_OREG_128

the palm beach police department released video taken as part of the sex abuse allegations
into jeffrey epstein. it's in 2005 including a tour of the mansion. their faces are blurred. when
palm beach police continue to interview, they say it was astonishing what they told him about
epstein. and, one girl told them that there from disadvantaged broken homes and several of his
victim testified about his experiences. and he held his hearing to give them closer. he died in
police custody earlier this month and was ruled a suicide. he alleged he may have been killed.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 28 • 5:04 PM

B_AUG_OREG_129

police in north bend are looking for a man who may be suicidal. this is a picture of 69-year old
kim simpson griffin from several years ago. his family says he's since lost weight... and his beard
has grown out. His family says when he was last seen friday, he was wearing a dark colored hat,
black shirt and dark colored pants with white tennis shoes. police need your help finding a
eugene man.. who has mental health issues. and doesn't have his medication or any money. 66year-old josh kemp was last seen monday morning, leaving the halfway house services on alder
street. police say it's unusual for keimp to be away for an extended period of time. he's about
five ten... and 250 pounds.
AM 860
Aug 28 • 2:55 PM

B_AUG_OREG_130

and Meanwhile speaking of stupidity there are numbers that have just come now owned of
from as a senior living based on government numbers they have broken Down state by state by
state we life expectancies now life expectancy nationwide his decline for the past 3 years not
much but a little bit has gone down from 78.8 % it is 78 years 8 months to 78 years 6 months
that according the centers for disease control and Prevention and Deezer report published in
the Journal of the American medical Association factors affecting a life expectancy varies
somewhat from state to state and Washington state where I'm privileged live does
pretty well here we're 8th best in life expectancy here where about two years ahead of the
national average the that's pretty good but nationwide cancer and heart disease remain
116

the two most common cause of death Meanwhile suicides drug overdoses and liver
disease connected alcoholism skyrocketed according to a study it Here's one of things I think is
fascinating is overall which state has the longest life expectancy at birth it's hawaii Yeah and
and 81 point years 3 months the lowest life expectancy at birth it's mississippi 74 years 7
months so almost ae 7 years difference between the lowest and highest now 7 years you
think about that you think about what that means if you're looking over the course of a
lifetime is so not and in terms of suicide you know it's stunning to me which state has its most
suicides Montana and it's way way new York state has the lowest rate of suicide and they think
that while other reasons for that is because it's so crowded because one of things that causes
people to commit suicide as isolation and new York has 8.1 400000 in montana it's at 28.9 so
it's almost 4 times as high rate of suicide in montana Here's one of things I think is stunning and
disturbing is in 9 States that have the lowest life expectancy are all on the
sound Mississippi louisiana alabama Arkansas it's problematic they tend to be also
very Republican States and each Here's the interesting thing is how much more would they be
Republican States if they have a longer life expectancy for one of these you see with all these
numbers across the country if Republicans do very well when people move on and lie so Let's
keep our cells alive he can do stuff it's healthier smoking has a tremendous impact on life
expectancy obesity is a lack of exercise so much of this actually is something you can control for
your own safety and for the sake of this great nation.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
Aug 29 • 2:40 PM

B_AUG_WASH_99

Here's one thing that does argue in favor of that it was suicide don't have his age right in front
of anybody was in his 50s early 60s he he wrote a brand new will two days before he
committed suicide now this guy's been in trouble for a long time he was convicted of some
rather minor offenses means some major offenses given minor punishment about a decade ago
another coming back at him but he thought he was going to win according to his attorneys so
why would a guy who write of in any worth I'm is worth about 6 million dollars was any put
most that money in a trust so that most of the victims will not be able to get a dime out of his
state why would a guy if you heard that guy Re wrote his will and then two days later did
commit suicide with that idea a convincing reason because otherwise if you thought I'm healthy
I'm going to win Mike court case I'm get out of here what other thing would explain Re writing
as well and then two days later suicide it very good pot our the other side of that coin
immediately get to them both Mr. O.J. Simpson and hillary clinton which as you well know all
along and kale he had a barrel of money and so they got the only thing I'm thinking about he
got too much money eventually Body lay out fc I believe you're right I believe you're right but
then then again the argument would be if you think I'm healthy I'm not feel like a lot of
criminals are filled by the time they get into prison they become ill while in custody this guy
wasn't built by all accounts he was healthy he had an unhealthy appetite for 4 children and
Sachs but but why else would he Re write his will if he thought he was going to walk out of jail
he thought maybe I'm going to get bail at some point it will be the legal charges against me like
I did before why would he Re right as well and is just go ahead so many facets that I mean did
somebody else we write this well I mean there's all kinds of well according to his attorney and
117

emory he rewrote his will specifically I guess it makes me think if a guy I thought he was going
to cash in his Own chips that he might say I'm gonna do this right now on and put everything I
own it in a trust so it after I'm dead if he had not read the if he had not told his attorneys to put
all his assets in a trust then when his many victims bring lawsuits after his death they would
have had access to his ass says CEO and hung a 100 million dollars with homes own 20 million
dollars with airplanes and boats he had big checking account a litter early cat not as a checking
account but he had cash on hand 50 million dollars Yeah 190 million in private investments in
private equity's another e-mail phone parts of buildings and other things that have big
investments he had about 600 million dollars in assets any specifically lock those up in a trust
Re road as well and two years and two days later he either gets murdered or commit suicide I
would argue that while I thought originally it didn't seem likely that he killed himself most
pedophiles to narcissistic to take their own lives that did in this case he might have done it he
said I'm going to cash in my own ships and rewrite the Wilson nobody can get my stuff and
nominee checkout I hope they keep investigating because I felt like we owe her a goal-scoring
the guy yelling down a lot Mo and there's so many people who work in that correction center
water be prosecuted apparently they falsified documents to do all those other things and I
think they'll go after I thinker name is elaine elaine Maxwell who was apparently the person the
woman who helped him for sure these juvenile girls she ought to go to go to jail but I agree
with you there and the other thing I've suggestively there are a lot of these women who have a
legitimate cause against him and now he's dead they won't see him on trial they won't be able
to testify against him my suggestion a few days ago there's there's something it doesn't happen
very often anymore but it's called an inquest and it's a lot like a trial except you don't have to
have a criminal prosecution going hold an inquest they held one decades ago in Multnomah
County over the death of a guy named Lloyd Stevenson who died at the hands of police and had
done absolutely nothing wrong I mean this guy wasn't even suspected of a crime he was just a
horrible series of mistakes this man died in the community wanted some answers so they held
an inquest which is held almost like a trial you can swear people when you can hold you can
take testimony he knew all that and then you generator reported the end says this is everything
we know about I kind of think they ought to have an inquest into Jeffrey Epstein's death and
into the the allegations by his accusers which it sounds like we're absolutely rock-solid mood
that's what I would like all soap I think that would satisfy an awful lot of people as much as you
can be satisfied I wish he'd been able to string this guy by his private frankly.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 29 • 5:03 PM

B_AUG_OREG_131

a veneta man accused of threatening to shoot officers during a standoff... was in court today
for the first time. the lane county sheriff's office was called to a home on crystal street
yesterday for a possible suicide. they say when they went inside the home, marvin dean
suddenly confronted them... and he was drunk and extremely agitated. deputies left, but say
they were soon called back -- because dean allegedly abused his spouse. they say they had to
use chemical agents to get him out of the home. and, a less than lethal projectile... to take him
into custody. he'll be back in court on october third

118

News Radio KEX
Aug 29 • 9:17 PM

B_AUG_OREG_132

there's an effort to not only look jim not legitimate ties or legitimized choosing and normalize
transgender risen but there's a marketing effort it's 18 it's a giant juggernaut of marketing we'll
talk a little bit about that because the whole transgender thing which many people still believe
is a former of mental illness that should being treated treated these people should be treated
with respect but they should be treated medically treated or at the very least psychologically
treated because gender dysphoria is rigged is a real issue and you and you see this reflected in
the suicide rates and other issues that are going to bring up from a study that involves several
colleges I'm sorry several health organizations and want to see the amount of colleges 70
colleges and the big thing that got me thinking about this took to talk about it on the show
today was you know that for the very first time in history and it's being celebrated across the
world there's a trans gender as the Chanel model so I think we should call I think we should call
the new perfumer Cologne confusion confusion you know they have like the that the girl comes
out or the guy or whatever it is the mammal comes out in the commercial a man walks out of
the water and then there's all this lighting and lightning in there's Thunder confusion.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 29 • 2:00 PM

B_AUG_OREG_133

A veneta man is in jail after a standoff with the lane county sheriff's office. the sheriff's office
says marvin dean threatened to shoot any officer that came inside. the standoff lasted more
than an hour... ending last night on crystal street in veneta. deputies first responded yesterday
morning to the suspect's house. dean was reportedly suicidal. but deputies left after they found
him unharmed. they said he was intoxicated and angry. then, deputies received another call
that dean had allegedly abused his spouse. that's when the standoff began. the sheriff's office
special response team eventually got dean out of the house using chemical agents and a nonlethal projectile.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
Aug 29 • 3:00 PM

B_AUG_WASH_100

A judge is now officially ended the criminal case against financier Jeffrey ep Steyn U.S. District
court judge Richard Berman today granted prosecutors' request to dismiss the charges since
EPS being killed himself in jail earlier this month after he had been awaiting trial on sex
trafficking charges yesterday the judge allowed 16 women say they were victimized by cops
into testify woman said he used his financial power and connections famous people make them
vulnerable to sexual attacks they say in some cases continued for years many say the attack
started when they were girls in their teens.

119

KIRO-SEA (CBS)
Aug 29 • 12:17 PM

B_AUG_WASH_101

pierce county's medical examiner has written a teenager's family to defend a controversial
ruling in the teen's death. dr. thomas clarclaims 16-year- old jordan gish died by suicide jumping
from a bridge over the puyallup river. but his family and police say it was a tragic accident by a
teen just goofing around. kiro 7 has obtained a letter from clark to gish's family dated
yesterday. he argued that it is his opinion an average person would understand jumping off the
bridge would wary a high risk of harm or death. his father maintains his son showed no warning
signs he wanted to die. >> his friends got ahold of us and said he wasn't suicidal. >> michael
gish is fighting to have clark's ruling changed in court.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 29 • 8:14 AM

B_AUG_OREG_134

for teens, escaping from social media is nearly impossible./// but experts can offer some ways
to help./// bianca castro reports.## + + + loc+ + + (nats debbie sees the effects of social media
first hand at home. (nats: "what are you looking at?....google.") and at work.... (sot: debbie
dobbs - executive director - the counseling place, tx) "it's just a part of life now so it's going to
come up all of the time." she's the executive director at the counseling place in richardson.
here, counselors intervene when children and teens fall into a dark place. police also call on
them during possible suicide calls. + + + debbie+ + + :25 (sot: debbie dobbs - executive director the counseling place, tx) "they go into a group chat or direct messaging with others who may be
feeling the same and then they just stay in that dark place and they don' t get out." experts say
a negative comment, or a screen shot, or a video that goes viral, can have the same mental
distress experienced by an adult who has lost of job. that's because teens lack maturity and life
experience. + + + dr. betsy+ + + (sot: dr. betsy kennard - psychiatrist) "kids don't see the future
like adults do so when they are miserable, they think they are gonna always be miserable."
that's why psychiatrists say parents should talk with their teens openly about what happens on
their social media accounts. (sot: dr. betsy kennard - psychiatrist) "it's so easy to say 'oh will get
better. you're gonna be fine. don't worry about that, it's not a big deal' and really, the kid, that
invalidates their world view or their lens as you said. so really hearing them, helping them feel
heard." parents should also talk with their child's school if they suspect cyberbullyin. and
parents should set stronger restrictions on their teen's social media use, even if it's not the
popular rule at home. (sot: debbie dobbs - executive director - the counseling place, tx) "there
are so many parents that say 'that's just the way it is now. that's just the way it is'. it's the way it
is because we let it." (nats: "and then i get judged and people don't want to talk to me.") (nats:
"when i'm trying to do things for your mental health and put some restrictions and not just let
you be immersed in your phone and then there is other parents that don't do that, it's
frustrating for me, it makes it hard for me.")## according to the cdc, suicide is now the secondleading cause of death among children ages 10-18./// young victims of cyberbullying are twice
as likely to attempt suicide and self-harm according to this study.

120

B_AUG_WASH_102

KING-SEA (NBC)
Aug 29 • 6:19 PM

police say they've seized a massive weapons arsenal inside a home in Philadelphia officials say
they recovered dozens of guns, thousands of rounds of ammo, and that's not all here's NBC’s
miguel almaguer >> reporter: the massive stockpile of weapons, 39 guns, more than 2,000
rounds of onand 8 mostly inactive grenades were hauled away by police the depot where
investigators sa bomb making materials were also found discovered in the Philadelphia suburbs
as much armory as it was a home, even veteran officers were shocked by the find. >> we found
at least a gun in every single room in the house. some were hidden under furniture. some were
in drawers some were in cabinets. >> reporter: responding to a call of a suicidal man -- >> says
he is armed. possibly multiple guns in the home. >> reporter: -- the 72-year-old homeowner
who authorities call an avid weapons collector was taken in for a mental evaluation the cache
of handguns, rifles, and assault rifles nearly all loaded are being cataloged. >> we're going to get
the serial number of every single gun and we're going to run that serial number >> reporter:
tonight no arrests and no charges as police say there was also no longer a threat here, an
arsenal dismantled in the middle of a quiet suburban neighborhood.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
Aug 29 • 9:19 AM

B_AUG_WASH_103

the intercept is releasing a new investigation on the death of a migrant in ice custody take oil
producer Jose of the virus access hundreds of pages of records and photos as well as audio and
video footage related to the death of a migrant at a privately run ice detention Center in
Georgia he and reporters with the intercept found the Correctional staff may have skirted
rules when it came to the treatment of an undocumented Mexican man refrain remarry della
Rosa he previously been diagnosed with schizophrenia he was placed in solitary confinement
for prolonged periods of time he died by suicide after 21 days in solitary the takeaway is
releasing a special podcast episode detailing what went wrong during effort ainst time nice
custody you can read the full investigation at the intercept Dotcom
KOMO-AM (Radio)
Aug 30 • 6:14 PM

B_AUG_WASH_104

floods droughts commodity prices terror trade wars all of it has been taking a toll American
farmers many of them say they are more afraid now than they have been of losing family
business and some of them are reaching out for help in fact a distress hotline has been set up
specifically for Farmers in rural areas NBC's Brian Murray reports the farm progress show has
been going on this week indicator Illinois chance for thousands of farmers to come together
talk shop ce exhibits demonstrations take part in learning sessions at the same time Rivera
behavioral health has rolled out a new farm and world stress hotline staffed 24 7 with mental
health professional to talk with farmers and ranchers who may be struggling thomas Sutton is
the assistant vice president of the company says in the calls they received so far how will be
about half of our calls have been from the former themselves never calls them from
121

low ones old who was very concerned about their her father dealing with financial struggle
is nothing new the agriculture industry although it's been a bigger challenge in recent years will
rogers is with the American farm Bureau Federation lucky you could stay but a perfect arm of
factors we've got to crack my impressions that oftentimes blow know even production cough
we've got era difficult all these within the the ongoing trade war and we have just Joey off or
whether he had a terrible weather this year that kept many many farmers from planting while
the impact of these factors vary by Mondrian varies by harmer we still see that you know farm
income is down sharply over the last 6 years really weird word gone back to the level of
a decade or more in terms of harming come right now are calling for commuters to farmers say
that you're losing the farm as stress stress disorder among them and their compatriots not be
necessarily Pursley feel that's going to happen but the idea that the car might have to be told
it's certainly something that weighs on them the A.F.P. s survey released in may shows
while parole adults believe mental health is important and majority would be willing to seek
treatment for themselves or a family member those numbers were down slightly among
farmers say you know if you look at rural America you've got fewer health care facility fewer
mental health care facilities people have to go farther further the to find help and he United the
poll suggests that feel and literature type of the store Carmel are you a certain degree of true
Ah but the truth is they don't face tougher manhole health challenges and as much as 66% of
farmers survey saying it's important to reduce stigma about mental health and agriculture
community a 2015 report from the centers for disease control Prevention claim farmers have
the highest suicide rate many profession in the U.S. the cdc later retracted those numbers after
re classify some of the workers in other categories 3 calculated numbers now showing just over
17 farmers out of every 100000 died by suicide in 2015 the number for the hotline is 106.1 4.3
6 it's free and confidential.
KMTR (NBC)
Aug 30 • 8:13 AM

B-AUG_OREG_135

millions of young adults are setting out for college campuses, leaving the comforts - and routine
- of their parents' homes./// for many, it will be their first time living on their own... and experts
have some advice on how to set students up for success./// sarah dallof has the story.## + + +
loc+ + + india carter is one of more than 19 million students headed to college this year. (sot:
india carter- college freshman) "this will be the first time living on my own." with plans to major
in neuroscience at the ohio state university she knows establishing healthy routines will be key
to her success. + + + india+ + + (sot: india carter- college freshman) "good eating habits, working
out, getting my work done, making sure i set aside time to study." dean bernadette melnyk
suggests a college wellness checklist. (sot: bernadette melnyk - chief wellness officer and dean
of the college of nursing - the ohio state university) + + + bernadette+ + + "it is much easier to
prevent a condition from occurring than to treat it once it already happens." establish healthy
habits like regular exercise and sleep. find local health care including a pharmacy. make mental
health a priority. a recent survey by barnes and noble education found 76- percent of college
students have experienced mental health issues like stress, depression and anxiety. while the
vast majority of schools offer resources like counseling only about a quarter of students were
utilizing them. (sot: bernadette melnyk - chief wellness officer and dean of the college of
122

nursing - the ohio state university) "if they're suffering from depression or anxiety, and it' s
interfering with heir activity or their studies, their performance, they need to get help." finally,
find a system... both for scheduling and stress relief... that works for the individual student..
(sot: india carter- college freshman) "painting helps me relieve stress, being outdoors." a plan
that works for india carter.. as schools encourage other incoming students to formulate their
own. sarah dallof n-b-c news. dean melnyk also suggests students program the number of the
national suicide prevention lifeline into their phones in case they, or a friend need it. that
number is 800-273-talk.
KVAL (CBS)
Aug 30 • 5:07 PM

B_AUG_OREG_136

Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death here in united states. with young people showing
higher rates. that is according to the macking foundation for suicide prevention. >> schools are
training staff to help students, lauren negrete has the story. >> reporter: staff at north bend
school district are getting the training they need to spot and prevent suicides. school counselor
says it is a global mental health crisis with the local impact. >> quite a few tragedies, one which
was a completed suicide and because of that we want to make sure that we brought the
knowledge into each of our buildings. >> reporter: a student died at a local park last year,
following the tragedy, counselor terry prickett has seen an increase in students having suicidal
thoughts. >> it is pretty normal for us to have several students with suicidal ideations. >>
reporter: that is with the question persuade refer to pr to training comes in. >> we are hoping
that this training gives teachers and the other adults in our district the warning signs for suicide,
and the risk factors, and that we can offer hope. >> they provide a foundation on how to spot
and approach a student in distress with the proper language. the district also has a suicide
intervention program that includes a crisis team screening and reaching out to the family. >> if i
see warning signs or risk factors i will get that kid to somebody who can get them help. >>
reporter: September is suicide prevention awareness month. they will be offering the same
keep your training free for the community, September 19. reporting in coos county, i am Lauren
Negrete.
KEZI (ABC)
Aug 30 • 6:12 AM

B_AUG_OREG_137

Developing news... the case against jeffrey epstein is no more. it was dismissed in a new york
court yesterday. the disgraced multimillionaire was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges...
when he committed suicide in his cell earlier this month. the judge cited his death as the reason
to dismiss the case. some of epstein's alleged victims still want the case to continue. they have
called for charges against those implicated in epstein's alleged sex trafficking ring. prosecutors
say they will continue to investigate.

123

FM News 101 KXL
Aug 31 • 1:10 PM

B_AUG_OREG_138

we'll learn about america's warrior partnership a nonprofit that works to help veterans
integrate into communities and vice versa so how is the community do it they organized a
quote unquote identify it but her power and leverage and then why is it it take to make the
service for in Lake leadership and then more importantly you know pro-life community it makes
financial but we talked to a lot of veteran organizations on the shot that includes the veterans
service organizations non Profits the V.A. and someone now they all tend to have a different
focus and often a different opinion on the veteran world but there's one thing I that each and
everyone I've talked to seems to agree on it is this suicide and mental health are the two most
important issues facing the veteran community now nearly all of these organizations are
working hard to address those related concerns they're putting millions of dollars towards
research outreach special programs and more some people might think that's enough that
having these big groups take on the problem is the key to solving some individuals out there
doing their part including working to bring awareness to those issues beyond the veteran
community these folks are doing it because believe it or not many maybe most Americans have
no idea of the scope of the veterans' suicide and mental health epidemic maybe that Tom's
Allen is one of those individual is he recently completed a 2800 mile walk across the country
with the aim of bringing awareness and raising funds pit aid in the fight for his brothers and
sisters in arms Tom joins me from Poughkeepsie new York as he recovered from the attorney to
talk about what he learned but first wanted to find out who he was and what drove him to start
walking what you do when the baby I know where you're from wenger joy and what you do you
were in I could have made the decision that joining an enlisted in the Navy after graduating
college which made my parents really happy I listen 91 right after graduating from college I got
out Christmas 96 was neglect Tricia and I wasn't two cruisers U.S.S. trucks and the U.S.S.
California both was went to the Persian Gulf war when I was there I station that the Bremerton
met you think back to the 1996 when you got out of the Navy what was that point of time in
your life like and what was the track he pursued after leaving the world's finest maybe you guys
I really didn't know what I wanted to do after I got out use the G.I. bill to become basically a
college professor which is warm so doing today use jeff go under grad school but the transition
for me was pretty easy Ariana college degree he had a pretty good it's a family support system
which is not the story that we hear a lot from our younger veterans there a transition a lot
more rocky it often can be I am one of the other interesting things about that is I think you may
be one of the first people if not the first went from the military to being a college professor is
that something you'd recommend people know a lot of us this service get the opportunity to
experience at a young age of being instructors whether of your division whether at 8 school or
something like that what do you think about going the education route Yeah I mean definitely
me it takes guts no patience mind being a teacher or professor you have to have the right
temperament so not everybody is cut out for that look I do but it was a great way to transition
from my they love because when you are at the OPS Sir you're doing a lot of same things as far
as instructing younger people in in in what they should be doing so it wasn't easy transition for
rates and Yeah it's it's a great way to live for I learn a lot but you have to like to read yet like to
learn as a lifelong think one of the things I think for those of us who served as you said it's petty
124

officers senior Worry that the college students they're not so much enlisted we were aid mean
what what should I call for mandatory audience were required to pay attention to our military
our had be found that to be the case or are is is the reaction from the students more positive
than some people might think Yeah I used to teach at the University of Alabama forward sure
students probably were a little less focused that can go anywhere teach now Marist college in
Poughkeepsie new York but Yeah so you students don't have to be there in college and a lot of
it shows you know not everybody is cut out for toler even know we think everyone should go to
college or high school Aussie definitely see a lot of that so you know kind of working with
students to kind of focus their energy well of course you recently focus your energy and this is
the main reason we wanted to talk to Tom R Allen was you just walked 2800 miles from oregon
0 in new York tell me where the idea for this walk came from and what the goal of it was well it
was a bit lower of insanity but I became the commander of be the local VFW posts backing to
keep seeing about a year and a half ago and I'm a veteran and I have a many friends of veterans
I really have no idea so many veterans much just what community were struggling a line in the
areas of mental health and homelessness financially anxious so there was really no my eyes
experience I get a phone call still commander and I get a phone call pretty much every day from
a veteran or former nonprofit on behalf of veteran needing help in more of these areas so
frustrated could help everybody who didn't so I decided to I do something really big crazy to
raise awareness on my only real community across the nation not can't sing dance and and I
can't really run or 50 years old sought sung villa they could do that challenge myself was was to
walk that some of those vets zero walk was born and through that law you've been able to
bring attention to this scourge of suicide mental health issues that are facing us as a community
of the veterans I think there are those out there of course who who are aware of it who would
be surprised that so many people have no idea of what we're facing when it comes to those
issues is that what you found while you were walking him beforehand there's just a lack of
awareness of exactly right I would need veterans and people who are veterans of the Street
walking every day and many of them had no idea about the numbers you know that 22 veteran
suicides every day America or the 40000 plus homeless veterans every night in America and
that really shocked me and I think everybody wants to do something to help our veterans is a
one-issue I think we can all agree on but if you don't know about these numbers you think
everything's fine say thank you for your service but it's really not so when people are these
numbers there really shocked and chaos think we're raising a lot of awareness across the
country when we return we'll have more with maybe that tums help who recently completed
28 100 mile walk from forward into new York to raise awareness of mental health issues.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
Aug 31 • 8:45 PM

B_AUG_WASH_105

air force veteran Jimmy Graham is the CEO of america's warrior partnership he joined me to
talk about their symposium in atlanta this week they're researching about suicide and the
organization's goal of helping vets and their communities thrived together we'd be over a way
to approach it is an individual level at a community level so community gets another reference
Um and local level but they understand who they are we've come through heard anyone
reported for 85% of veterans are looking to get back there looking for volunteer opportunities
125

and looking to network with other veterans move the so what we are buying is why it's good for
the community so hot the community do it they organized themselves could it to to broaden
identify it becomes harder and leverage them and then why are we good because it just makes
it makes service fence that makes leadership fence and then more importantly you know for a
lot of communities it makes financial sense we don't we do in the mail also some our
communities the communities we serve the about trends increased revenue into communities
by about 30 million $ a year just through the access to the GED they're using their get to know
reducing moving it using the V.A. for health care work from home alone benefits and and need
be a disability benefits for us that's pretty pretty big economic impact for reference does a lot
of veterans to unless you knew them while they were in or are a family member there is you're
probably not going to know they serve right sure exactly and I think that there's you know one
of the things I always say to people it's Um I how many times are you mad about trend wished
those who work in space how many times have you met a veteran and error durant gracious
and you say I wish I had known the six-month people because this never would have happened
and so I think that thirst there are a lot of programs to improve the quality of life for veterans
and the that get there than most veterans are aware of america's warrior partnership is doing
something to address that in fact you have your 6th annual warrior community integration
symposium taking place September 4th to 6th in the Atlanta tell me a little bit about this
symposium in and what the goals and what the focus so that all our yet Hey expressed in the
booth oppose him drugs by difficult under attendees from what Aster risk to earn 40 different
organizations from 48 kate so come from all over the United States everyone comes to atlanta
I'm a big piece of the networking but it's it's a good smart networking in that was took it I spent
most of my time over a week connecting people whether they're a national program that we
nonprofit program that the local community program could benefit from I connect we
confidently are pushing organizations you know the like matchup we're pushing them together
to defeat hate government national government national nonprofit can you guys work together
he local nonprofit you could really use a service from its other national nonprofit maybe you all
can work together and then on the local level teaching community is what the best practices
are letting shared together vote good fit for us and that is after this imposing when we feed in
gear organization say I can better serve veterans a light now because people of the people I
met at the symposium as I understand it from looking down what's going to take place at the
symposium is also will be some those biggest issues in the veteran community taken on head
on at the symposium including about the research into veterans' suicide what we can do about
it as I saw on this list it looks like the first ever community they study on ending veteran suicide
is actually going to be presented at your event right H for if our study we eat we started in
partnership with the University of Alabama and and the support of the Bristol-Myers Squibb
Foundation what we recognized for the community level was we we really didn't have a good
picture in Buffalo new York Let's justet I don't know what the that Turner was going to take
their life the characteristics of them look like where they went when they do where they lived
but with their habits and center as compared to what kind of joke going and we knew that they
were we knew that the communities but community he environment had a big impact so we
always wanted to do the study what's the difference between mobil alabama and minneapolis
they call or like thin Orange County california and dyou in indianapolis where and how is the
pattern is about to take a life look different from the bedroom in in indianapolis as compared to
126

another another location we have the big benefit to that was we can improve our prevent what
this one of the things we found one of the things we'll talk to the imposing weak £ bet when
you pull the source data from the county's the death records etc and really look at them Nagar
get level to what can I do that that maybe we'll learn we are in terms of that good thing quality
of the data it's not there in minneapolis 65 counties are working in one County validates that
the that the person who got it who got it who took their life served in the military one County
had a 65 there's 35 of the counties that don't even marked down whether the person served in
the military that and then there's one County that have done that…
FM News 101 KXL
Aug 31 • 12:33 AM

B_AUG_OREG_139

I've got a couple of stories to pay for you here coming up shortly and one of them is pretty
insane because it's red flag laws at work and it has to do with somebody just called and
said that this elderly homeowner seemed like he was suicidal and then the cops descended
they took all the firearms and he was reported on by nbc is that he was this dangerous criminal
and then they lied they said okay the threats gone they arrested so they they they were called
there because it was said he was suicidal and dangerous to himself and said they arrested his
guns but not the guy that they thought was meant to and they perform health
evaluations anything like that so was based on a call that a red flag was aware that's how I fly
does work anyone tell you that due process is protected the proposal for red-flag laws is lying
to your face I don't care who they are they're lying to you I have a little early
no exaggeration read all the 17 laws that have been implemented across the country with
regards to red-flag.

127

