KONG-SEA
May 1 • 1:37 AM

B_MAY_WASH_1

new data shows the teen suicide rate has increased since the release of the Netflix show 13
reasons why. researchers studied cdc data involving the deaths of people from the ages of 10
and 64 from 2016 to 2017. the suicide rate among ages 10 through 17 increased nearly 30% in
April 2017 one month after the show debuted. there were also nearly 200 additional deaths
from suicide between the shows release through the study's conclusion. but experts say there
is no evidence that the series directly caused the increase, only that there was an association.
researchers say findings should serve as a reminder that teenagers may be sensitive to the way
suicide is portrayed in the media. you can reach the national suicide prevention lifeline at this
number at 800- 2573-talk. or you can text home to the crisis text line, 741741.
KFXO (FOX)
May 1 • 1:41 AM

B_MAY_OREG_1

startling new data shows an association between the teen suicide rate and t release of a
popular Netflix show "13 reasons why" premieredIMarch 20-1 it's about a young woman who
killed herself the suicide rate among those ages 10 through 17 increased near 30-percent in
April 20-1 especially among boy there were also nearly 2-hundred additional deaths from
suicide between the show's release through t study's conclusion experts say there's no
evidence the series directly caused the increase only that there was an association. # and if you
or someone you know is struggling with suicide, we do have resources available for you ktvzdot com you can find those resources under the community tab by clicking on 'let talk.'
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 1 • 1:46 AM

B_MAY_OREG_2

when controversial Netflix show 13 reasons why mental health expert he were afraid it would
learn to a speak in teen suicides. >> settle in, becauseIam about to tell you the story of my life.
more specifically why my life ended. >> the series is about a girl named hannah who takes her
life. but according to a new study by the journal of the American academy of child and
adolescent sigh couldItri there was a 28.9% increase in the teen suicide rate the month after
the show's debut with the trend continuing the following year. >> the study didn't surprise me
at all. there my own experienceIsaw a significant increase in teens and younger than that
coming in. >> mental health expert Taillon payne believes 13 reasons why glorified suicide. >>
often time children feel hopeless and depressed that's a normal adolescent experience. and it
this show says if you are feeling like this here is the option. it also covering a at that poo topics
like rape. some good did come out of the show's debut in that it began a dialogue about mental
health he recommends parents continue the conversation by asking important questions. >>
1

have you had thoughts of hurting yourself. have you had thoughts of ending your own life? >>
conversation he says could strengthen your relationship as you explore how to tackle concerns
about school and your family dynamic, social media pressures and body image issues which,
according to pain are common triggers for teens. >> ma that Martinez. >>> if you are or
someone you know needs help. there are peopleIready to listen we have links on our website.
at kptv.com/bettertogether.
KMVU (FOX)
May 1 • 2:08 AM

B_MAY_OREG_3

hey, everybody,Iam jesse palmer. welcome to the show. we begin with the disturbing story of
money, sex, and manipulation. lawrence ray is accused of turning his daughter's college friends
into a cult. in 2010 the 59-year-old moved into his daughter's dorm at sarah lawrence college in
new york. right away he charmed her roommates by cooking, cleaning, and taken them out to
eat. but reportedly the fatherly love quickly turned into disturbing control tactics. ray allegedly
post them to have sex with each other while he watched and pressure them to commit suicide.
now there is a video of the young cult member admitting to the unthinkable. >> did you infect
poison me? >> yes. >> jesse: claudio drury appears out of it as she confesses to poisoning
lawrence ray and his daughter talliah. >> did you do this by your own free will? >> yes. >> did
anybody pay or threaten you? >> no. >> jesse: it was published in 2017 linked with the
headlineI hurt people by poisoning them. she is just one of the former sarah lawrence students
caught up in ray's web of manipulation. detailed in an article by "the cut." santos rosario was
caught up in the cult. in 2016 he recorded this phone call to claudia. >>I said thatI wanted to go
to the precinct and confess. I am going to confess to like everything that happened. everything
that I did. >> jesse: his parents sold their home and gave ray $200,000 to pay for property
damage. the con man also rope them into a so-called self-improvement program that he
convinced him to to to commit to suicide by swallowing a bottle of tylenol. he coursed some of
the coeds into having group sex with them. one student says that he got so freaked out, there
was no consent in the situation. ray has a criminal past. in 2003 he was convicted of securities
fraud. he convinced the student said he was a victim of a government conspiracy involving nypd
commissioner bernard-caret. >> many things happen most of the time. >> jesse: worried
parents contacted the police, they were told that nothing could be done because the students
were over the age of 18. ray denied any wrongdoing and lives in new jersey with two women,
he calls on both his wife. now to the secret 911 call finally being released by the dallas police
department. police officer amber guyger is awaiting trial for killing botham jean in his
apartment that she mistakenly thought was hers. now we are hearing what she revealed to
dispatchers moments after firing her gun. >> I thought I was in my apartment. oh, my god. I’m
sorry. >> okay, we have help on the way. >> I know, but I’m going to lose my job. they are
coming, I’m sorry. >> jesse: kayla brantley joins us now from the new york newsroom, officer
was clearly distraught after the incident, does she say anything else in the 911 call? >> it lasted
a little bit over 5 minutes and amber tells the dispatcher that she thought it was her apartment.
she replayed at least as I’m sorry, and even speaks to botham jean asking him what his name is,
calling him bud and encouraging him to stay alive. towards the end of the call as officers are
arriving, she asks herself I got into the wrong apartment and then says that she is so tired. the
2

family of botham jean released a statement after the call is released saying that there was
nothing in the recording where she ever indicated that she thought botham jean was trying to
harm her. she was very fast to shoot without asking very many questions. >> jesse: amber
guyger was charged with murder by a grand jury last year and is scheduled to return to court in
september. kayla brantley, thank you.
KVAL (CBS)
May 1 • 2:17 AM

B_MAY_OREG_4

the suicide rate spiked according to the nationwide children's hospital, in the month after 13
reasons why was release, the suicide rate for boys from 10 to 17 years of age went up by nearly
30%. meanwhile the rates for girls during that time remained the same even though 18 girl is
the main character in the show. the psychologist with providence in Portland says part of the
problem is that that show started a conversation about suicide but had no boundaries, and it
didn't address the need for parents to have real conversations with their kids.>> the truth is
that the ideas were there, media, whether it's shows like 13 reasons why or things they see on
snapchat or twitter, or whatever the social platform is. the idea is already there. having a
conversation about it is one of the best ways to help alleviate it. >> kids who watch the show
with their parents and talked about it afterwards, they did much better than those who
watched it alone.>>> experts ate most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. there
is always someone available to talk to, if you need to you can call the national lifeline, the
number there one 802 73 talk. you can also text home to 741741, or chat online at suicide
prevention lifeline.org.
KEPR (CBS)
May 1 • 8:23 AM

B_MAY_WASH_2

the rates of suicide attempts by self-poisoning have more than doubled in the last decade
among u.s. teens, tweens and young adults. that's according to a study from national children's
hospital. researchers say the rates more than tripled among girls and young women. previous
research has shown males die by suicide more than females, but females attempt it more often.
and a study of post-menopausal women found that quitting smoking significantly reduced their
risk of bladder cancer. researchers in Indiana say the biggest reduction in risk happened in the
first 10 years after quitting.
KHQ (NBC)
May 1 • 8:35 AM

B_MAY_WASH_3

Netflix is coming under fire because of a new study that is looking at teen suicides. researchers
from the national institutes of health found there was an alarming spike in the number of
teenagers who committed suicide right after the Netflix series "13 reasons why" came out. the
show tells the story of a young girl who kills herself. after its 2017 debut, the suicide rate shot
up almost 29-percent higher than normal in kids ages 10 to 17. Netflix has now extended the
show for a third season, calling it "engaging content."
3

KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 1 • 8:47 AM

B_MAY_OREG_5

it I should do what one way to immediately reduce suicide in America pay people a little more is
this new economic analysis that marketplace morning reporter supported by progressive
insurance offering its home photo explorers shoppers anything You options in one place when
buying home insurance custom quotes and rates are available online to learn more progressive
Dotcom and by age dp committed to designing a better way it works so everyone can achieve
what they're working for more aid dp always designing for people learn more at design . 80 P
Dotcom I’m David Brown catches in new York a new study this week finds a higher minimum
wage reduces suicides researchers also find this effect with higher earned income tax credit for
low-income people marketplaces Nancy Marshall dancers been looking at the study suicides the
10th leading cause of death in America Nancy coming up pulling a group of economists and
public health specialist said Berkeley study federal data on deaths and they matched to
increases in the minimum wage earned income tax credit and that's the tax credit that goes to
low-income workers after crunching those numbers the Berkeley researchers concluded that a
10% increase in the minimum wage and earned income tax credit could prevent more than a
1000 suicides year and Y.A. do higher wages are bigger tax credit reduce suicide but there's
been a lot of research on what some economists call deaths of despair we're less educated
people get depressed because they don't have well-paying jobs and that can lead to suicide I
talked with one of the authors of the study Berkeley economist and good guy and she says they
looked at other studies linking suicide to financial problems and reached this conclusion higher
minimum wages reduce the likelihood of financial stress and improve and his cars so we have
publicized the Patriot that means proceeds and in part reduced the number of suicides you and
proving mental health Nancy who was most affected by this mainly eat less and less educated
low wage workers suicide rates were down more among men of color who are more likely to
work minimum wage jobs it was the reverse for women with suicide rates down more for
whites as harsh against Washington thank you.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 1 • 11:28 AM

B_MAY_WASH_4

Researchers have some new information on how suicide rates in the U.S. could go down it
involves wages in the past 20 years the suicide rate the U.S. has risen 35% in those numbers
highest among less educated White Americans but what if those people were paid more for a
new paper by the National Bureau of economic research shows that raising the minimum wage
and the earned income tax credit by just 10% does lead to a lower rate of suicide and death by
accidental drug overdose especially among those without a college education.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
May 1 • 9:21 AM

B_MAY_WASH_5

4

Netflix says that is they're investigating a new study with a show "13 reasons w." according to
the researchers, the show may have contributed today a rise in suicide. >> they say that there
were 195 more suicides than expected among kids ages 10 to 17. the study compared the data
after the how was release today a five-year study on teen suicides. they say that April 2017 had
more deaths than any other single month in the five-year period. that was one month after the
show was released. a Netflix spokesperson say that is the company is look nothing t the study.
available to talk if you know that someone is someone you know needs help. check out the
screen. call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is 800273-talk. there’s a crisis
talk line. text talk to 741741.
KVAL (CBS)
May 1 • 9:42 AM

B_MAY_OREG_6

The rates of suicide by stealth poisoning have more than doubled. that's according to a study
from the national children's hospital. researcher save blades more than tripled in previous
research has shown males died by suicide more than females and females attempted more
often. quitting smoking significantly reduced the risk of bladder cancer. researcher save the
biggest reduction in risk happened in the first 10 years after quitting.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 1 • 11:45 AM

B_MAY_WASH_6

time for our health more American teens are poisoning himself halls the study in the journal of
pediatrics shows itself poisoning attempt by 10 to 18 year-olds more than doubled between
2010 and 2017 this as earlier cdc figures showed one in 6 teenagers considers suicide in any
given year CBS news medical contributor dr David akers doesn't have all the answers but he
suggests this question the greatest technology I have to know whether you have mental health
is for words how do you feel she suggests parents talk to their kids listen to their kids and seek
medical help immediately if anything seems wrong keep marker.
KFXO (FOX)
May 1 • 7:23 PM

B_MAY_OREG_7

according to a new survey commissioned by the American psychological association. 87-percent
of adults agreed people should not be ashamed struggling with mental health problems. a
majority of people even said people who are suicidal can be treated effectively, and go on to
live successful lives still, nearly 40-percent of those surveyed said they would look a someone
differently if they knew they had a mental health disorder a thousand people were surveyed for
the study ### a disturbing new study finds a growing number of young teens attempting suicide
by poisoning themselves. the research from nationwide children hospital in Ohio finds
"poisoning" suicide attempts more than doubled among teens since the year 2-thousand. the
rates more than tripled for the girls and young women. 71-percent of the attempted poisoning
were females. experts say t information is n meant to panic parents. it' meant to arm them with
5

tools t start talking about mental health before problems arise. you can find several central
Oregonresources for those struggling with thoughts of suicide or other mental health issues on
our website just click 'let's talk' under the community tab at ktvz.com
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
B_MAY_WASH_7
May 1 • 8:04 PM
new mental health data shows concerning trend for walker county youth kg my laura murphy
explains the data released by the walker county health department on Wednesday shows a
high an increased number of walker county students reporting feelings of anxiety and
depression and seriously considering suicide it shows female students and students who
identify as lesbian gay or bisexual reporting higher rates of experiencing bullying and feeling sad
hopeless or anxious if you know a young person who is struggling encourage them to talk to a
trusted adult or access free confidential support 24 7 by calling the national suicide prevention
lifeline or texting the crisis text.
B_MAY_OREG_8

KMTR (NBC)
May 1 • 8:43 PM

a disturbing new study finds a growing number of young teenagers committing suicide by
poisoning. to research from nationwide finds poisoning suicide attempts more than doubled
among teenagers since the year 2000. the rates more than tripled for girls and young women.
71% of the poisonings were females. it is not meant to panic parents; it is meant to arm them
with tools to talk about mental health before problems arise.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 2 • 2:10 AM

B_MAY_OREG_9

deb: we know the woman who forced a lock down at columbine and other area schools died by
suicide. authorities say paez traveled from Miami to Denver just days ahead of the 20th
anniversary of the massacre at columbine. they say she likely shot herself on April 15th.
authorities didn't learn until the next day she was in Colorado and bought a shotgun and
bullets. columbine and other schools closed as a precaution on the 17th.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 2 • 9:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_8

mental health data shows concerning trend for walker county youth give my laura murphy
explains the data released by the walker county health department on Wednesday shows a
high an increased number of walker county students reporting feelings of anxiety and
depression and seriously considering suicide it shows female students and students who
identify as lesbian gay or bisexual reporting higher rates of experiencing bullying and feeling sad
hopeless or anxious if you know a young person who is struggling encourage them to talk to a
trusted adult or access free confidential support 24 7 by calling the national suicide prevention
lifeline or texting the crisis text line.
6

B_MAY_WASH_9
KXLY (ABC)
May 2 • 11:05 AM
In the meantime, we turn to this alarming study about teen suicide. researchers this morning,
have found a nearly 30% spike in teenage boys taking their own lives after the release of that
first season of the popular Netflix show "13 reasons why." so we want to bring in our chief
medical correspondent dr. jen ashton. this is a deeply personal subject matter for you. >> yep.
>> the study found the huge jump in boys even though the program is about a teen girl's
suicide. that wasn't terribly surprising it would hit young men. >> not exactly. it's a very
complex issue because we do know that boys are four times more likely to die by suicide than
girls and suicide in general the third leading cause of death amongst this age group. looking at
boys compared to girls they're less likely to be expressive with their feelings and emotions.
they're more likely to be aggressive, and more likely to act out. a lot of different factors at play,
but this is concerning to be sure. >> there are going to be a lot of opinions about this program
and its potential effect on people. netflix released a statement and said, this is a critically
important topic, and we worked hard to ensure we handle this sensitive issue responsibly. what
can parents do really? if there is a program like this making people feel a certain way, what can
they do? >> the most important thing, david, there is something called f.a.c.t.s., and parents
need to be on the lookout. if you look at this list, it's "f" stands for feelings of hopelessness,
actions that display hopelessness, a change in their behavior, being more re regressed, solitary,
threats regarding suicide or situations of stress, humiliation or loss like bullying or a breakup
but, again, it's not just the responsibility on the parents. in the media and it's not just television,
books, all forms of media, we have to address suicide in a responsible manner because this is a
public health crisis. >> we know you just began a new podcast called life after suicide. it's just
now available, and you have incredibly personal reporting that starts next week on "gma" and
"world news tonight." we can’t wait for that. >> your book will help so many people. >> I hope
so. >> it already is. thanks, dr. jen. >>> for anyone watching at home, if you know anyone
struggling with suicidal thoughts, contact the national suicide prevention lifeline. I love they call
it the lifeline. the number is right there on your screen and on our website for you.

AM 860
May 2 • 11:23 AM

B_MAY_OREG_10

this is a time where we can just really tried to improve our lives and I did not know this may is
mental health for months and joining us now we have Paul john frito to talk about mental
health America you're the CEO there and it is mental health month did not know it so good
morning dana what does that all mean a good morning thanks for having me on we end a
whole month 70 years ago when the national health association the idea was to do two things
was to raise awareness of mental health and give people the tools to be mentally healthy lives
sounds like good a lofty goal but you know the rubber really hits the road when we're talking
about issues like the homeless population teenagers who struggle with suicide veterans all of
those things what kind of progress have we've been making it in this area our people maybe I’m
not afraid to talk about suicide and some of these other mental health issues today I think
younger people are more willing to talk about a mental health and not people may have
7

banned 30 or 50 years ago koppu we've had is that we have created mental illness with danger
to self or others as a matter of public policy for a long time she's made mental health conditions
the only chronic diseases America we took stage for a treatment often inappropriately to
incarceration that help America we think we have to act before stage court we do that means
listening to people that means early identification intervention just like it is with cancer heart
disease in you could move people on have placed recovery give them hope for the future I like
so talk about some of those early stages and we always look for early indicators of cancer and
even prevention is that we're talk about some of these early stages that's exactly right a lot of
people used to think that an early stage first suicide was suicidal aviation or suicidal thinking of
it's not it's really when people would draw when people have trouble sleeping when people
have trouble concentrating focusing or find themselves easily distracted while a lot of these
kinds of early warning signs or exceed internal factors not external one but they can be dealt
with and they can be dealt with an identified effectively on a skid that we are getting more of
an awareness on this what are some things that we are able to do if we are struggling with
mental health I mean I know there's things like support animal then so shoals things letters
some other ideas that are really working for people yeah we got to get kim and kurian first of all
our mental health month he missed here will be joined by more than 60000 organizations
around the country in promoting its theme inform mind for body here and what we're offering
you a tool kit that people about animal companionship recreation about spirituality about
work-life balance for about social engagement things that anybody can do who may be feeling
bad because were trying to recreate the isolation and increase engagement and the second
thing people can do is go to our website I hope America about that take a mental health
screening been recommended for anybody over the age of 11 number many people get them
but 4 million people have come to our website take a free anonymous strain of which can really
get people very good information about what's going on with them or about somebody they
care about pay I know world some time it quickly role of exercise can in this is that something
that can be documented absolutely of those above two more runners know did pop 45 minutes
and we get an indoor pig reliefs but the chemical reaction could be a whole lot better here and I
think absolutely documented which exercise could be beneficial to everybody in maintaining
both soak in mental health always a good reminder well Paul we appreciate your time this
morning.
KBNZ
May 2 • 11:32 AM

B_MAY_OREG_11

advances in technology are changing the way we understand brain activity and noticing deadly
potential health disorders. suicide is the leading cause of death. apart of mental health
awareness month nikki battiste is showing us how brain scans are helping with thoughts. good
morning. >> good morning. we visited Carnegie Mellon university to took a look at research. he
spent decades to develop a sophisticated system to try and read our minds and now he's
making a breakthrough into suicidal thinking. >> we found there were certain concepts that
were altered in people who thought about suicide, and our method was able to detect those
differences and analyze what it consists of. >> it begins with a significant piece of equipment,
an mri. >> with the mri, you see the picture of the brain's activities. >> you're saying every
8

thought and brain idea has its own thought and pattern. >> yes. I think what's fascinating and
relatively new is the patterns are similar across people. >> unless you have suicidal thoughts.
then they're altered.>> that's what’s pches do. this method can identify those changes. >>
these images show two people thinking about the word death. this one has thought about
suicide. this one has not. the colors that. >> you get activation related to lfse-thinking when
they're thinking about death, but among people w m have aaden attempt, you see even more
of this dark red. >>te reporr: 34 people took part in his latest study.17 he never had suicidal
thoughts but the other 17 had and half of those 17 had attempted suicide. when the
participants were asked to think about different concepts like care free, praise, and death,
those snapshots were then analyzed by this complex computer server. with the power to
search unique patterns. >> you can tell if someone's feeling anger okay ever. we can tell what
topic a person is reading about. >> this doctor was 90% accurate in who had thoughts. >> how
would it change? >> if we could understand the underlying drive to harm oneself, we would be
able to arm with better therapies. >> what we have now doesn't work all that well. >> dr. josh
gordon says his work could lead to more dream. >> potentially in ten years. they'll be able to
tell. possibly. >> slightly optimistic, but not the impossible. maybe 20 years. >> the national
institute of mental awareness have prove about their method works to identify autism
spectrum disorder. hoe hopes to prove it to others. such amazing work they're doing. >> this is
brilliant. to better understand the neurobuy. I think it's so, so important. that's really exciting.
>>ha and that point is so interesting, which is to say york uno, your brain is doing nothing that
you can't think your way out of. that there is wiring here which would help to understand the
condition you're in. >> understanding brain neurons is so important to possible treatment. the
doctor says he and his team are three years away to read our mikes. the thinking, I want to win
the lottery. when can I do that? >> certain types of medication you're using, whether they're
working or not, whether exercise affects the change, whether diet helps. those would show
whether it works or not.
KVAL (CBS)
May 2 • 3:19 PM

B_MAY_OREG_12

Advances in technology are changing the way we understand brain and deadly mental health
disorders. suicide is one of the leading causes of death in the u.s. according to the cdc. as part
of mental health awareness month, we learn how researchers are using brain scans to spot
thoughts. >> there were certain concepts that were altered in people who think about suicide
and our method was able to detect those differences. >> the method begins with a
sophisticated piece of equipment a functional mri. >> with f mri we see a picture of rain's
activities. >> you are saying every thought, idea in our brain has its own specific pattern? >>
yes. what's really fascinating and relatively new is the patterns are similar across people. >>
must have suicidal thoughts and then they are altered? >> they change the way you think is
identify those changes. these images show to people thinking about the word death and this
one has thought about suicide, and this one has not. the colors represent brain neurons. >> red
is telling you get activation related to self thinking when they are thinking about death. among
people who have made an attempt you see even more of this dark red. >> 34 people took part
in the study and 17 of them never had suicidal thoughts but the other 17 had and over half of
9

those 17 had even attempted suicide in the past. the second by second snapshot show clear
differences in the brain patterns when the participants were asked to think about different
concepts like carefree praise and death. >> the snapshots were an by this complex computer
server storing hundreds of thought by hundreds of people. >> you can tell whether someone
showing anger, happiness, sadness. we can tell what number a person's thinking payment. >>
he was 90% accurate. doctor joshua gordon director of national institute of mental health
thinks doctor [ inaudible ] work could lead to effective treatment. >> if we could understand
our biology underlying the drive to harm oneself then we would be able to design better
therapies. >> in the future they hope to apply the approach to other psychiatric disorders like
depression, schizophrenia and bipolar. >> the national institute of health awarded doctor justin
and his team $3.8 million grant to continue the research.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 2 • 4:11 PM

B_MAY_WASH_10

You may remember a few weeks ago there was a case of a florida teenager who traveled to
Colorado obsessed over the Columbine shooting she bought a gun and cause schools there to
shut down turns out the during the surge she likely wasn't a threat ABC Alex Stone of details a
court ordering clear Creek County Colorado's says 18 year-old sold by ie likely died on April 15
the day she flew from miami to Denver the fbi didn't even learn she was in colorado Intel next
day it now appears she had already killed herself in the mountains west of Denver when agents
began tracking their movements and warnings went out to schools around colorado her body
was found on April 17th only a few days before the 20th anniversary of the Columbine
shooting.
KOHD (ABC)
May 2 • 6:10 PM

B_MAY_OREG_13

we're going to turn to an alarming study about teen suicide and a spike in teenage boys taking
their own lives. researchers saying there has been a 30% increase in the teenage male suicide
rate since the release of the popular netflix show "13 reasons why." the show is about a teen
girl suicide but researchers say boys are four times more likely to die by suicide than girls.
suicide is the third leading cause of death in that age group. dr. jenn ashton spoke about it on
"good morning america" this morning. >> there are going to be a lot of opinions about this
program and its potential effects on people. netflix released a statement and said, this is a
critically important topic. we have worked hard to handle this sensitive issue responsibly. in the
meantime, what can parents do if there is a program like that that is making people feel a
certain way? what can they do? >> there is something called facts. parents need to be on the
lookout for this. it is f, stands for feelings of hopelessness they see in their child, action that is
display more regressed, more solitary, threats regarding suicide or situations of threats,
humility or loss, like bullying or a breakup. it is not just responsibility on the parents in the
media, television, books. all forms of media, we have to address suicide in a responsible
manner. this is a public health crisis. >> I want to piggy back on that last point she made. I am
all about communication. I think that's one of the biggest problems about suicide, our fear of
10

talking about it, our fear of addressing it head-on. I don't know if "13 reasons why" is an
appropriate way to address it for certain age groups. I think putting it out there in the media
and getting people more comfortable with talking about it and not shying away from the
subject or just word has been very important to me for a while. so I am liking the conversation. I
think it also brings its risks and it is dangerous as well as we are seeing these numbers. so it's
kind of one of those difficult situations of just you have to always make the conversation age
appropriate, obviously. I just don't know necessarily if "13 reasons why" is age appropriate. >> I
never saw it. >> we did stories on it when it first came out. we talked to parents who were
concerned about it. we talked to experts. it was, where do you think the line got crossed, this is
good to be talking about this and this is kind of dangerous for certain age groups. >> it was very
relatable. I related to it in a way as far as high school struggles. as a 27-year-old watching it, it
really affected me. it was really hard. >> you have a distance from that time. >> exactly. I kind of
got mad at my friends for not warning me how it does get kind of graphic at the end of it when
it concludes. it is really jarring. it is surprising that teenagers are even allowed to watch that, at
least that episode, in my opinion. >> to be clear, the study found correlation but not necessary
causation. they did say they noticed the they don't know for a fact that the show caused the
spike. they can't make the direct link. they are saying it is awfully coincidental they saw a spike
around the time the Netflix show came out. that's when they found they had to respond with it.
>> didn't they just come out with this? I was surprised season 2 came out. they have to
readdress and wrap some things up. >> hearing how bad season was, like you said, I couldn't
believe a season 2 would come out. I didn't watch season 1. I am just following along, listening
right now. I’m going to have to watch it. be careful. I gotcha.
KONG-SEA
May 2 • 7:48 PM

B_MAY_WASH_11

welcome back to dabl, jerry springer is being sued. the family of a man who killed himself,
following his appearance on the show is suing jerry, and the show, they claim his death was a
result of severe emotional and mental suffering and anguish the man appeared, on the show
that aired last year in the episode, his fiancie told him, she the man's family said, that started
dating his friends. jerry springer spur -- jerry springer show was designed to humiliate and
exploit people like him. show take responsibly for this? should jerry springer or the >> while
julie on twitter said that they agreed to be on that show? a sad situation for sure, I do not think
they will find much closure from a messy lawsuit. I tend to agree with you julie, a big thing,
everyone remembers the jenny jones show, when the man came on to beat his crush, taking
the crush was female turned out the crush was a male. he left the show, ended up killing the
crush. and I think that changed a lot when it comes to shows like that. but I think it's about the
knowing what you're getting was designed for this purpose, into and the idea that the show as
you just said, no one is surprised by that. so, I really do empathize and am so sad for their loss, I
think he knew what he was getting into. >> I agree. >> vivian on facebook said this will be hard
to prove that the show cause this but maybe, they can provide some compensation. may the
man rest in peace. again, rest in peace, I do not think they should even provide any sort of
compensation because what about the person that gets punched in the face or even to pay for
that person's medical bills? ecocide, you can sympathize for the family but what if this man, did
11

not go in jerry springer. what if you learned he walked into the bedroom and saw he and his
friend there could've been a crime of passion right there there could've been two people dead
with a suicide. so you know you signed up for, rest in peace bite, I think jerry springer is off the
hook on this one. >> out on facebook says, so the grieving family is doing everything they can
while looking for answers and I hope they can come up with some kind of settlement that the
show can bring out the ugly and people that particular show. >> I’m with you. but, i've been on
my fair share of reality shows, I know specific reefer big brother, they give you a psychiatrist
before and after you gone the rigorous tests before you go on show. questions at least about
your , I mean a couple hundred mental health. I remember going to like and your mother, you
like to read, I was like whoa go back to number four. there's a 200 you really have to pay
attention; they really do care for your well-being at least on these reality shows that I did. I
cannot say because I don't know what if jerry spear does it or not but I would think that their
legal team has it buttoned up as well. it can be tough to get that money again I do feel for the
family.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 2 • 8:03 PM

B_MAY_OREG_14

reporter: Oregon's suicide rate is high above the national average. middle aged and older adults
are taking their own lives at highereracy. particularly middle-aged white men. the county is
working to raise awareness and providing education and resources. experts say the key is
connection. >> just being in that age group they are at risk. if you add in other factors,
loneliness, lack of resources, the risk goes up. knowing they may not reach out, having
awareness for those of us who may have contact and touch points, with those individuals. >>
they are setting up a senior loneliness line. kgw's morgan romero will have a look at this on the
news at 6 p.m. if you or a loved one is struggling right now, there is always help available. two
numbers on your screen as we week. the national suicide prevention hot line. the other
number is a life line specifically for youth. you can call anytime 24/7. you can also find more of
our reporting on suicide prevention and awareness on www.kgw.com.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
May 2 • 8:35 PM

B_MAY_WASH_12

an army captain and former boy scout leader is facing multiple counts of child . king county
detectives believe there are other victims. >> it comes thanks to the diligence of a western
washington mother who lost her son to suicide. we spoke to the woman today and she shared
her story. >> reporter: gary sypole took his own life in august 2017. in the letter he left behind
revealed the secret that weighed him down. >> that his brother had him when he was five or
six. >> reporter: her diligence eventually led to a child molestation charge against her stepson
stemming from the time he spent in maple valley in the early 2000. he primarily lived with his
mother in memphis, tennessee. he pleaded not guilty last august and was released on bail and
returned to his military base in virginia where he is an army captain. something garrett wrote in
a letter to his mom kept her going. >> you have always done the right thing and you always will.
and initially I just thought it was a compliment but I know that he was telling me that he wanted
12

me to do something about it. >> reporter: she fears that robert could have more victims. >> I
felt in my gut that this was not isolated. just a human instinct when you look at pictures on
social media that just don't seem right for a man of his age and children and that kind of thing.
>> reporter: last november she gave 135 photos to police showing robert sypole with children.
>> I started reaching out to people whose names were tagged most photos. within two weeks
of me contacting those families in virginia the authorities were investigating and he was
arrested. >> reporter: military police arrested sypole and handed him over to authorities where
he faces four counts of child . police are looking into his previous time in memphis, tennessee
as a boy scout leader. detectives sent this letter to families of people here who had contact
with him. >> they would have never known if he had not left this message. >> reporter: her
mission now is to free any other victims of the burden that he carried for years and honor his
bravery to share what he did even in death.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 2 • 9:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_15

Oregonsuicide rate is soaring sitting high above the national average. >> a middle age and older
adult here and around the country are taking their own lives a higher rate. morgan romero
shows us there are resources to help bring statistics down. >>reporter: a campaign to show
people that they are enough and they matter, just one prevention effort that clackamas county
is focusing on . >> a lot of people feel they are alone. we’re going to use these signs starting
monday, may 6. these signs will be used in what we call a sign rally, on monday morning the
county is being intentional with helping middle-aged and older adults. >> 68% of the deaths in
the nation, the last year I believe were between the ages of 35 and 65. particularly in middleage white man. seniors 85 and up at the second highest rate. >> just being in that age group
they are at risk. isolation, lack of resources, the risk of resources goes up . >> the county is
raising awareness and provide education and resources to those who feel alone in their
suffering . >> if we can get to those folks and infuse them with hope, recovery and connection,
those people go on to be resilient individuals who are healthy. >>reporter: katie tilton runs
programs for aging adults and those with disabilities. >> she says social connection is key . >>
we just want people to feel like they can make the connections. >> older folks may never reach
out for help . >> have awareness for those of us who have contact and touch points with those
individuals, lots of times you don't know what you don't know until you have to and even then
you don't know . >> the county wants to make it easier for people to learn what's out there and
access those services. services like the lines for life senior loneliness line. >> this line is to lessen
social isolation, disconnect of people from my community expect h t goal of prevention and
protection for those who have attempted suicide . >> were in the unique period of history that
have more services with higher quality . >> if you or someone you know over 55 years old who
live in clackamas county and is struggling, please reach out, the number is right here, 503- 2001633. the national lifeline is 800-273-8255. lines for life volunteers and staff can handle any
calls related to seniors.
KONG-SEA
May 2 • 10:15 PM

B_MAY_WASH_13

13

Deborah: was it murder or suicide in that's the question a grieving family is still trying to get
answered. a woman excited for her future is found dead in her apartment with nearly a dozen
stab wounds. >> it should have been the most joyful time of ellen greenberg's life. >> she was
engaged to be married, so we were planning a wedding. >> the only child of josh and sandy
greenberg. 27-year-old ellen was a beloved first grade school teacher in philadelphia. >> she
was just a ray of sunshine. she loved life. she loved people and bringing people together. >> but
just four days after ellen sent out save the date notices for her wedding, the unthinkable. >> I
had made dinner. we were watching tv and our land line rang. >> ellen's fiance, sam goldberg, a
television producer had gone to the gym. when he returned, the latch on the apartment was
locked. nothing could have prepared him for the gruesome discovery behind that door. >>
everything stopped. the world stopped. >> yeah. >> what else could you say? >> ellen was
found stabbed 20 times. 10 wounds on the back of her neck, one to the scalp. also stabbed in
the abdomen, and eight times to the chest. the knife was still lodged in her chest when she was
found. with no forced entry, and no defense wounds, detectives concluded her death was a
suicide. but her parents strongly >> what does that say to you? >> it says to me it's murder. >>
before her death, ellen confided to her parents she had been stressed at work. her psychiatrist
say prescribed klonapen and ambien. >> the psychiatrist says not suicidal. >> I measured the
arm length and the knife, and you can't get it back. you cannot get that back far enough to
administer those types of wounds. >> former philadelphia assistant da, guy dandra has also
studied the case. >> there was someone who made an offhand comment, she did pilates, or
yoga. is it full contact pilates? I don't mean to make a joke, but it doesn't make sense. >> the
greenbergs are establishing her daughter would never take her own life. >> what was the last
thing you said to her? >> we went back and forth, we had a routine. I said I love you. she said I
love you. and I know that day. I love you more, more, more, more, more. I was grateful for that.
>> deborah: the greenbergs says she was so squeamish she wouldn't even pierce her ears.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 2 • 9:42 PM

B_MAY_OREG_16

deb: it's worst case scenario, an irreversible perceived solution to mental anguish. we've been
telling you stories of suicide and survival as part of our "kind is better" project. impacts a huge
portion of the local population, even more people are living with something you might find
relatable. >> when we look at oongs iet disorders, meaning people meet some criteria, we're
looking up to 25%. >> deb: so that means one out of every four people can be diagnosed with
an anxiety disorder, but many more have situational anxiety, maybe you've experienced it too,
worrying about work, butterflies before a big meeting, nervousness before a party. >> so
typically people avoid feeling bad. and when they avoid feeling bad they stop doing things in
their life that are otherwise productive or of interest to them. >> deb: one of the most extreme
and obvious anxiety disorders is obsessive compulsive disorder, or ocd. >> even though
someone suffering from ocd may feel well, they aren't. >> deb: obsessive compulsive disorder is
hard to understand, certain feelings make processed meat do things they don't want to do and
it can be based out of fear. recent studies and articles show there's a greater chance of death
by suicide if someone struggles with ocd. for this week's "kind is better," genevieve reaume sat
14

down with a young man who showed her how he's helpful -- helping others tackle this
frustrating and overwhelming disorder. >> deb: watching ryan bernstein strum jesus uconn
ukulele is entrancing. almost meditative. I could listen to that all day. it's an escape for him. >>
it just makes me feel like really happy inside. >> genevieve: ryan is about to graduate from
wilson high school. his four-year journey came with challenges. freshman year he realized he
had obsessive compulsive disorder. it's hard to explain, it's based on irrational fears and
worries. if you don't do something a specific way, wash your hand as certain number of times,
or touch the door a specific way, you feel something bad might happen. for ryan, he struggled
with the keyboard. >> i'd have to type and then i'd have to delete and retype and delete and
retype until it was just right. >> genevieve: you can imagine how hard that made homework. >>
I’m better now, but I don't want anyone else to go true what I did. >> genevieve: ryan was open
about his ocd at school and at home, which helped him get a handle on it quickly. >> I just really
want to be like a helper. >> genevieve: his experience motivated him to write a book. "ocd to
me. an unethology of anxieties." you published a book before graduating high school. >> yeah.
it's pretty amazing. >> genevieve: it's impressive. >> thanks. >> genevieve: ryan's goal -- others
with ocd use it as a resource. according to the anxiety and depression association of america,
one in 40 adults and one in 100 kids battle the disorder. it's a small percentage of the u.s.
population, but its impact can be hugely debilitating. knowing ryan's giving someone else hope,
that's music to his ears.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 3 • 2:05 AM

B_MAY_OREG_17

what if you could stop a suicide attempt with a simple hello? some cases some say that's all it
may take. Lincoln graves went to a suicide prevention meeting. >> reporter: suicide prevention
does not always draw crowds. >> it can be an uncomfortable conversation. >> reporter: there is
a benefit to leaving the comfort zone. >> the positive to that isy nor --y normas -- enormous. >>
reporter: there is no one way to prevent suicide, but there is a simple way to try. >> you just
have to be nice. you just have to be nice. >> reporter: there was a lot of talk about reaching out
to other people, even strangers. >> look at another human being in the eyes and say hello. >>
reporter: it can help in a society becoming less personally connected. carrie just happened on
tonight's talk and it resonated with him. >> when I see there are individuals out there that do
not feel the sense of connection or that they can't obtain. it I take it on myself to say how can I
help bridge that gap? >> reporter: one piece of advice? treat emotional distress that you see in
a person the same way as if they had a physical health problem. >> we started seeing those
people in the way we see and treat people suffering physical distress and suffering and this
world would be a different place and as a result our rate of suicide would go down. >> deb: that
was lincoln graves reporting. we remind you that there is always somebody to help you through
tough times. you can text with somebody by sending the word home to 741-741. you can find
these resources and more on our website at ka it u.com. dabbing -- katu.com
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 3 • 8:07 PM

B_MAY_WASH_14

15

If someone is thinking about suicides sending them to a website for help might seem wrong but
researchers reviewed dubs say that actually works you W psychologist Ursula whiteside helped
quietly launched a suicide Prevention website now matters now dot the work and keep Saab
the pair of really hard Currie and come out the other end I can eat can't forget firm to look at
people peremptory about what it could mean the story their research shows that nearly onethird of the more than 3000 visitors surveyed felt significantly less suicidal after being on the
side for just a few minutes the study was published in the Journal of medical Internet research
whiteside says it's not a replacement for counseling but can be a good start for someone having
suicidal thoughts looking for help online again that website is now matters now dot work.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 3 • 8:30 PM

B_MAY_OREG_18

In tonight's better together, more school-age skids and young adults are poisoning themselves
in suicide attempts. >> experts behind a new study say the trend is alarming, but there is hope,
and there is help out there. >> as suicide rates increase across the united states, more and
more young people are turning to poison. >> the more serious ones are pharmaceutical
overdoses, but they do everything, carbon monoxide, the cleaning products. >> suicide
aelements by young people have more than doubled over the past ten years, and for young
females it's more than tripled. what happened in 2010 to 2011 to dramatically change, best
watch was that's when smart phones and social media really got in this aim group. >> according
to data published in the journal pediatrics, between the year 2000 and 2018, 1.6 million cases
of intentional self-poisoning were called into poison control centers. 71% of those calls were
made by females between 10 and 24 years old. >> this is kids in school. so something dramatic
is happening to our youth. >> more than 340,000 of those resulted in symptoms that required
treatment. experts say the key to stopping this epidemic is communication. parents and loved
ones need to be encouraging, open communication with their children, and if they need to go a
step further seeking help from a professional. fox 12's better together initiative focusing on way
our community promotes mental wellness. if you need help, there are people out there ready
to listen. we have links to resources on our website.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 3 • 11:08 PM

B_MAY_WASH_15

research at the University of Washington say they have a unique resource to help people having
suicidal thoughts you ellis psychologist Ursula whiteside help launch the suicide Prevention
website now matters now over very hope on Marini amari me people who don't have access to
care and that if a parent I am from England that provide I think speaker she says although there
are plenty of online resources for suicide help their stories are from people who've considered
or attempted suicide we share how they cope with that whiteside says the survey of more than
3000 visitors nearly one third reported feeling significantly less suicidal after just a few minutes
on the now matters now about our website findings were published in the Journal of medical
Internet research.

16

KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 3 • 11:36 PM

B_MAY_WASH_16

some may not think website could be much help for person having suicidal thoughts research at
the University of Washington shows otherwise skull assume marrow has the story something
for their suicide Prevention website now matters now Doc Orta launched quietly in 2014 and
last winter had a quarter of a million visitors people would find it but not surprised that people
come back faith I gave you a researcher personal whiteside says they have information on
coping skills and links to crisis lines like other websites but their stories are What makes them
unique they come from people who also thought about or attempted suicide it will take care of
our people and you got a guy you can own it found anything I have nothing some the life
research shows that about one third of the visitors who reported having suicidal thoughts have
fewer negative feelings after just a few minutes on the site the study published in the Journal of
medical Internet research.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 5 • 1:32 AM

B_MAY_OREG_19

suicide is the leading cause of death among 15 to 19-year-olds in washington state. a new law is
aching it easier for 0 parents to get involved when teenagers are struggling with mental illness
and substance abuse. >> this is a first step. >> she's relentless. >> we talked last year and how
do you feel about it? >> I’m elated obviously. from starting from a place of people saying this is
unsolvable problem. >> the problem what us to how to change mental health laws pertaining to
kids. teenagers have to content for the pains to paep pate in their treatment. this meanses they
could refuse treatment. mary hart knows the struggle first hand. she sat down with us about
the callance she faced to help her daughter who initially refused counseling. >> it was hard to
get to her had because she was depressed. >> more rights for parents. they can put their child
into an outpatient treatment of over three months without a child's consent. >> will it make a
difference? absolutely. you won't be told the parents can't know what is going on. suicide rates
among teens increasing. in 2008, 29 percent of 12 graders experienced hopelessness for a twoweek period. and that number jumped to 41 percent. in a typical classroom of 29 students two
to three students have attempted suicide in the past year. the reality is sobering. this mom is
relentless in her pursuit to enhance children. she said it was overwhelming.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 5 • 9:27 AM

B_MAY_OREG_20

suicide is the leading cause of death among 15 to 19-year-olds in washington, but a new law is
making it easier for parents to get involved when kids are struggling with depression and
substance abuse. >> peggy delaine is relentless. we talked about this last year, and it finally
passed. how do you feel about it? >> elated. from starting to people saying it was an unsolvable
17

problem. >> in washington state, people as young as 13 years old have to consent with their
parents to participate in their behavioral health treatment. this means teens can easily refuse
any treatment and also keep their parents from knowing about what's going on. mary hart
knows that struggle firsthand, last year, she sat down with us about the challenges she faced to
help her suicidal daughter who initially refused counseling. >> it was really hard to get through
to her because she was so depressed? >> now a bill in the legislature will give parents the right
to intervene. it also allows them to put their child into an outpatient treatment of 12 sessions
over three months even without a child's consent. >> will it make a difference? absolutely it's
going to make a difference because you're not going to be having children told that their parent
can't know what's going on with them. >> the change comes at a time when suicide rates
among teens are increasing. in 2008, 29% of 12th graders experienced homelessness for a twoweek period. in 2018, that number jumped to had 1% feeling hopeless. the study also showed
that in a typical high school size classroom of 23 students, two or three students have
attempted suicide in the past year. the reality is sobering, but this mom is relentless in her
pursuit for children statewide. >> just to hear all the yeses coming through was super exciting.
>> we want to remind you if you or anyone needs help, there are resources for you. here's the
number for the suicide prevention lifeline. you can also text 273-talk to the number listed.
listeners are available every day.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
May 5 • 9:33 AM

B_MAY_WASH_123

police are investigating the shooting death of one of their own. morris ville police say the 32
year old officer was killed last night during a traffic stop that was considered routine. the officer
is identified as jordan sheldon. police report the shooter took off from the scene but his body
was found at an apartment nearby. >> he died from a self-inflicted gun shot wound so the
investigation will be continuing. >>> a memorial service will be held this evening for the unc
charlotte student riley howell. family, friends, members of the community attended visitation
on Saturday. people lined up to pay their respects in winds ville, south carolina. authorities say
he stopped a shooter on the unc campus before being shot and killed himself. howell will be
buried with military honors. his family says the 21-year-old dreamed of serving in the military
and becoming a firefighter.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 5 • 8:37 PM

B_MAY_WASH_17

If someone is thinking about suicide send them to a website for help. Seems wrong but
researchers at the you don't say it works you W psychologist Ursula whiteside help quell launch
the suicide Prevention website now matters now dot org hearing during the people who think
they're really hard Currie and come out the other end I can eat can't forget firm to look at
people cowering during the manhunt for it people think the story the research shows that
nearly one third of the more than 3000 visitors survey fell significantly less suicidal after being
on the site for just a few minutes the study was published in the Journal of medical Internet

18

research Whitesides said It's not a replacement for counselling Kambia good start for someone
having suicidal thoughts looking for help online.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 6 • 2:49 PM

B_MAY_WASH_18

A report just issues is linking 13 reasons to a popular trend in suicide. it was found that rates
jumped 0% in the month after the series debut. experts are still analyzing the data and we are
not sure what it means. suicide is on the rise. here to talk about having real conversations are
laurel media and tim krivanek. this good to have you both here. tell me about your husband,
who was taken by suicide eight years ago. this has become a very important mission for you.
tell me that your experience. >> for me, when he died, I did not understand suicide and mental
illness. and I felt like there was more to understand and we have three children. so during that
it was how to educate myself so I can teach my kids? >> this will always be part of their story.
>> doesn't define us, but it is part of us. so getting involved in learning and educating is so
important for us. it is how we educate and help our friends. and it is what day >> it is how we
get better as a community. >> yes. the connections you make with people is incredible and
special and we are not alone in this. in the beginning I felt alone. >> tim, I know you lost your
daughter not that long ago. can you tell us more? >> similar to laurels, I was not prepared for
that. I don't think anybody is. it was about having a conversation as well. I did not know how to
have that conversation saying that you are feeling sad and deal with it. that is not the kind of a
conversation that you need to have. you have to be listening as opposed to trying to fix and
that comes down to treating mental health the way we treat physical health. people don't
decide to have a heart attack or they don't commit cancer. 's we are trying to change the
language to say dying by suicide because it is not a choice. 's medical condition.>> we don't
understand it and we still have stigma around the. so the american foundation for suicide
prevention is launching a campaign. what is the meaning of this? >> it is about how to start a
conversation with people I am concerned about you and looking at your friends and saying I’m
not okay and not being afraid. it is opening the doors to engage and when we share, we let
something out. >> it is hard for the person who is initiating conversation with someone who
could be in trouble, because we are not sure we will say the right thing. and yet the important
of making that connection is critical. >> one of the most lacking traits that adults have is
empathy. and even in nina's case, whatever she was dealing with, it was very real to her. and
when they are struggling, it is real to them. this is not someone trying to get attention and it is
real and a medical condition and we should deal with it like that. >> do you think we are getting
better along those lines? it seems like we hear more about it. and maybe this is the next
generation of awareness where we talk about what words to reuse and what we do? >> if you
think five years ago or 10 years ago, people did not talk about it. just having this conversation is
so important and we are saving lives by doing this. >> the healing conversations program is your
baby. >> healing conversations is a program and people who have lost somebody can reach out
to our website and we connect the volunteers, who go through training, and we connect them
with the person who has lost someone. I would talk someone who has lost a partner and tim
would talk to someone who has lost a child. and it is another way to say you are not alone and
19

your feelings are real and have that space. >> amazing to talk to someone who knows what
you're going through. you cannot deny that is part of for is going on.
community is important for survivors and this is something that lasts. there are walks
throughout the state. >> the biggest fundraising effort we have are the walks and it is a great
way to's to raise money and to demonstrate a sense of community. my oldest daughter has put
together a Facebook page. and working hard at raising awareness. and you go to these and I
was talking to a woman after the last one in everett and I asked her what she liked the best,
and she said there were so many other people who are dealing with the same kind of a struggle
I am. I was never someone who would go and do that. but it is powerful. >> thank you both.
the mission that you are on is so important in your welcome back any time. to learn more about
this and get involved, you can go to their website. you can also had to our website and we will
have links and resources there. help is available 24 hours a day. please remember that there is
help available and we ask you to reach out if you need help.
KEZI (ABC)
May 6 • 8:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_21

kezi 9 news. we now know the names of the couple found dead inside their home in west
eugene Friday. in an apparent murder-suicide. we continue our team coverage with tyler jones..
with new information, just into the newsroom. matt.. renee.. just an hour ago. we found out
that fred and donna farrow.. both in their mid 70's.. were found by police inside this home early
Friday afternoon. after a report of a gunshot wound. the latest information from police.. is that
they believe fred shot his wife.. called police. and then shot himself before officers could get to
the home. while I was out here in the neighborhood last friday and earlier today. neighbors I
spoke to say they're heartbroken. because the farrows were everything you could ask for from
a neighbor. neighbors say they were always friendly and kept their home immaculate. I also
spoke to a family member this afternoon. who told me the family doesn't want to comment.
KMTR (NBC)
May 6 • 8:30 PM

B_MAY_OREG_22

new information tonight on a death investigation that began friday, when police were called to
a report of shots fired.. and found two people dead in a home in danebo. + + been identified as
76 year-old frederic farrow and 73 year-old donna mae farrow. according to eugene police...
the farrow's were found dead of an apparent murder-suicide. police say they believed that
frederic farrow fatally shot donna farrow before calling 9-1-1 and turning the firearm on himself
before they got to the scene friday afternoon.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 6 • 8:53 PM

B_MAY_WASH_19

Talking about caring for mental health of our children Daniel sold off Cruz’s suicide prevention
specialist with mad hope making a difference helping other people everywhere thanks for
20

joining us Daniel thank you for having I want to make sure that we start right off by talking
about your event with limited time we have so in light of the fact that mental health data for
walking county uses showing some concerning trans you actually have a suicide prevention
training events scheduled coming up here soon to tell us about that definitely offered to troll
troll and event I be here I and basically what it give an opportunity for our team members and
service providers and parents how to learn about you the effect preventing how they can pick it
and eat and even opportunity to become a trainer with mental health program and help
prevent you think and that is isn't this Saturday that's coming up this Saturday 11 it all the time
I can't dream it I am much included and if that can calling and carpenter and is this first support
professionals are what concerned parents be welcome at this as well who's welcome to attend I
did it you can too welcome for all community members including I youth I 13 and I i am every
spurt writer on school administrators and teachers earn question event and I’m pretty much
anybody who is interested in learning more about a very important topic so what are the trends
with the mental health of our you can lock county one of the concerns you have we are noted
feeling good right on trend around mental health and life and I am fine golic he increase seen in
our community aware of the trams they worried I’m and to drop you meant it so I’m twisting
room for good that's good I’m upward from move me don't it itch still hard to tell Michael
Barrett gold power not contributing to these threads on trial with how well we do know in the
research and that there are ways to prevent the truth I and our mission and q I’m and you
through our so of people attend the meeting this Saturday from 9 3 the bridge columns
conference true the mad hope trainings use suicide prevention training event what will they be
doing during those 6 hours yeah for the chain aimed to reduce my shutter myth and good to
the court I don't know life better giving food fight why he should not do worse separate i've
learned tool to get from one plant Nikkei with compassion and learn how to connect your with
the court and reach a it how do people get more information to learn more about the event the
said don't you can contact my belt and matt cole I w of can dock work or call a hero I create a
one it might affect all right Daniel sold off the suicide prevention specialist with matt hope
thanks for joining us today.
KEZI (ABC)
May 6 • 8:57 PM

B_MAY_OREG_23

tragic new information on the shooting deaths of two people in west eugene...police are now
saying it was a murder suicide. the shock felt by neighbors in tonight's top story. after a man
was found dead with a gunshot wound in eugene, police are now calling it murder. the latest in
what police think happened... and -- clashing protesters shut down the harlow road bridge...and
now one of the groups is saying they'll be back on the bridge. but police say their efforts to
keep people safe during the scuffle came with a big price tag. kezi 9 news at six starts now.
announcer says, "live local late breaking, this is kezi 9 news at 6" a busy weekend for police in
our area... looking into four murders in four days. thanks for joining us tonight. I’m renee
mccullough. I’m matt templeman. and that wasn't all they had on their plates -- as a heated
conflict between two groups of protesters shut down harlow road bridge yesterday. we have
team coverage on the resource overload on eugene and springfield police... who had to diffuse
tensions between the groups. plus -- springfield police opened a murder case -- after a man was
21

found shot to death. but we begin with tyler jones.. with new information tonight... on an
apparent murder-suicide in west eugene. tyler? matt.. renee.. police say fred and donna
farrow.. both in their early to mid 70's.. were found dead inside this home.. after what they
believe was a murder-suicide on friday afternoon. neighbors I spoke to.. say they never saw it
coming. police say it appears that fred shot his wife.. called 9-1-1.. and then killed himself
before police arrived. I talked to one neighbor just half an hour ago who wouldn't go on
camera. he says fred is a retired millwright from weyerhaeuser.. who always had a level head.
he says he and fred would chat and joke together quite often.. and that fred was truly a great
guy. I also spoke to a family member this afternoon.. who told me the family doesn't want to
comment.
KEZI (ABC)
May 6 • 9:31 PM

B_MAY_OREG_24

a death investigation in west eugene is now called a murder suicide. that's just one of the top
local stories we're following on this Monday.... police say fred and donna farrow -- both in their
early to mid 70's -- were found dead in their home. according to police, it appears that fred shot
his wife. called 9-1-1. and then killed himself. and police think another death investigation that
opened during the weekend is murder. police say 48-year-old steven dube was shot in the head
at the franklin industrial park in eugene. they arrested 25-year-old daniel ayers in connection to
this case, who is now facing murder charges. police say when they arrived - they saw ayers
standing near dube. dube later died. they are still investigating to find out exactly what led up
to the shooting.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 6 • 11:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_20

a federal court ruled that Alabama’s prisons failed to protect inmates from suicide there scott
hodge given from members stationed be bh chan reports said the decision comes after 15 state
inmates took their own lives in 15 months the court order without a department of corrections
to take immediate action to prevent suicide in state prisons so over the weekend directs the
state to better identify and monitor at risk inmates is the latest development in an ongoing
lawsuit about the treatment of state prisoners Mariam more s is a lawyer with the southern
poverty law center one of the plaintiffs on the case the court's opinion recognizes the urgency
of the situation facing 80's see the system remains grossly understaffed and people are dying as
a result in its ruling the court said alabama's prisons system will be monitored for compliance.
KEZI (ABC)
May 7 • 5:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_25

Eugene police have released the names of the older couple that was found in this home on
friday afternoon. from an apparent murder-suicide. details, coming up." plus...deputies say, a
man has been arrested, accused of killing his 87-year-old grandmother in creswell. we have
details on the investigation coming up. announcer says, "live local late breaking, this is kezi 9
22

news at 11" fire crews were called out to a mobile home park in springfield earlier this evening
for a fire in one of the homes. thank you for joining us im chynna greene. new tonight at 11..
residents of that home on franklin boulevard say they don't know how the fire started but it
began under or behind the dryer in their home. a fire marshal has been called out to
investigate. right now the cause of the fire and how much damage was done is unknown. three
people were inside the home when the fire started. but no one was injured. now to shootings...
a couple's death... and a political rally where protesters clashed. police officers in the eugene springfield area had their resources sread thin this weekend. and we have details on all of it.
first we'll go to kezi 9 news reporter tyler jones.. who's in eugene with details on what police
are now calling a murder-suicide that happened last friday. tyler? tyler jones says, "chynna, we
now know that the two people found inside this home last friday were 76- year-old fred farrow
and 73-year-old donna farrow. police say this was apparently a murder- suicide." police say
they believe fred shot his wife. called 9-1-1.. then killed himself before officers could get to the
home on friday. at the time. witnesses say there were at least a dozen police cars in the
neighborhood. and officers were taking cover behind their vehicles until the scene was clear.
when we spoke to neighbors last Friday and earlier today. those that knew the couple were in
shock. people we talked to say fred and donna were great neighbors. and that fred would
always stop and chat or wave when he was driving through the neighborhood. a neighbor we
talked to this afternoon. says he had heard the rumors of a murder-suicide. but n expected
something like this from his friend. "i also spoke to a family member this afternoon, who told
me that the family has not comment at this time.
KDRV (ABC)
May 7 • 8:25 AM

B_MAY_OREG_26

new research shows the release of the television series 'thirteen reasons why' which depicts
the struggles and suicide of a fictional teenage girl was associated with a twenty-eight percent
increase in youth suicide rararararain the month following the show's debut. researchers say
the number of deaths by suicide recorded in april 20-17 for youth ages ten to seventeen was
greater than any single month during the five- year period they studied. between the months of
april and December of 20-17 this uptick translated into approximately one-hundred ninety-five
additional suicide deaths in this age group than previous years. doctors say this study tells us
that shows which depict suicide as a means of revenge can be linked to increased rates of
copycat suicides in teens. materials depicting suicide can be a dangerous influence to a
vulnerable teen who is hurting. they can also provide a teaching moment for parents. red flags
that a teen is struggling emotionally include sudden reclusiveness -- being unusually
argumentative -- or talk of feeling sad. doctors advise, if you feel your child may be suicidal, it's
important to get help as soon as possible. if you or anyone you know is dealing with feelings of
suicide -- call the national suicide prevention lifeline at the number on your screen -- you can
also find that number on our website -- at kdrv-dot-com.
FM News 101 KXL
May 7 • 8:40 AM

B_MAY_OREG_27

23

a man is dead after barricading himself in a tiger's hotel room for power scare excels dane
daughter has arrested a man and locked himself in a room at the quality inn on 99 w for hours
yesterday from 10 a.m. through the afternoon police believe he was known to be suicidal and
tighter police sergeant dunkin' tells us the sombre ending to the whole ordeal you watch and
you can take care of that but he did make in 3 in to the hotel room and but what located but
investigators believe that he took his own life washington county sheriff's deputies say they
initially had a warrant for the man's arrest team father fn news one no one and if you or
someone you know is battling suicidal thoughts call lines for life it's all free.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 7 • 11:16 AM

B_MAY_WASH_21

it's estimated that for every death by suicide in this country 135 people are directly affected
that translates to more than 6 million people years ABC News' chief medical correspondent Dr.
Jennifer Ashton's family was affected by suicide she said with a new book called life after
suicide finding courage comfort and community after unthinkable loss our direction is with us
right now good morning thanks so much for having me you got it is I I’m curious if it just in a
nutshell how all those suicide of your ex-husband had a ripple effect on you and and those
around you I mean that anyone who has experienced since the death of a loved one we were
completely devastated and shattered for I think came out of the Blue wall and hit a tree just
over two years the dollar so we're very throw-in the whole process and still learning I’m we
have learned a massive amount through a lot of therapy which we've been a lot you have and
we continue to learn that and keep it for power that the same way this was the father of your
children Howard day thank you for asking bearer they're actually doing it really well they're
now 19 28th it happened two years ago and we've been and family therapy we've all been an
individual therapy and we recognize that that will be part of the rest of our alliance and read
my children have kind of in body if uconn that for which I talk bad about it but I I had never
heard of it before called Post traumatic well with and it a phenomenon that with this ride bikes
by college yet we're error after the trauma Our tragedy someone's understanding of life that
they relate with others and change in ways that and actually growth and not the opposite and
they really embody that you said you didn't see his suicide coming or other signs now in
retrospect it the you missed I mean what's sign should people look forward well in medical
school we learn about believes kind of major depression and Rob had not about and mad
sometimes happen and the moon but it in retrospect when I look at the last 7 years of our
marriage because we had finalised and out Michael all the worth choose a week before he died
I think maybe there were some who thought behind Pinot he walked away from his career
abruptly I thought it was cute follow his dream her I thought that he was pulling away from our
marriage but maybe really was pulling away from life I said you don't sometimes and for that I
know of those questioned never again hampered because the first and the and provide p.m.
through it that way not here anymore we appreciate you sharing your story ABC News' chief
medical correspondent Dr. Jennifer Ashton the book is life after suicide finding courage comfort
and community after unthinkable loss if you are someone donates help one pass along the
National suicide Prevention lifeline.

24

KEZI (ABC)
B_MAY_OREG_28
May 7 • 11:55 AM
now to a follow up on what Eugene police are now calling a murder- suicide. the two people
found inside a home on teralee lane Friday... have been identified as 76- year-old fred farrow
and 73-year- old donna farrow. police say they believe fred shot his wife. called 9-1-1. then
killed himself before officers could get to the home. at the time. witnesses say there were at
least a dozen police cars in the neighborhood. Officers taking cover behind their vehicles until
the scene was clear. neighbors that knew the couple say they are in shock. telling us, they were
great neighbors. a family member says the family has no comment at this time.
AM 860
May 7 • 3:30 PM

B_MAY_OREG_29

you argue why these 3 states that they have the worst suicide record where there is the most
suicide or Wyoming Alaska Montana than a lot of us think of is kind of beautiful states where as
people living where they are forced into a more regular interaction with crowds of other people
it seemed to do little bit better and by the way the suicide think it's 47000 suicides haram press
yeah that's right is the number I want to take a moment to put that into perspective please 3 7
about a week here and happening but in that same year 2016 40000 people died in car
accidents and we believe that all of the time everyone get back into traffic every day the 47th
husband even big number in another fell and then you have to think that it's not just 47 ballot
and you can do that is not an isolated event the ravages of those who are left behind and we
think about the children parents friend and co-worker catcher it has widespread effect
especially because do I not only affect people and I’m making my friend what but there's also
we know food that contagion which means in a move meant to offend someone up to 3
degrees removed from that individual it increased risk for committing suicide the have the
ability if snowball very quickly I want to ask you two things I would ask you about what people
can do about this as individuals and then second some public policy implications of death by
loneliness and some of the horrors that really been visited because of the addition of 47000
suicides wheat as everybody knows now with 70000 deaths a year from opioid drug overdoses
wages and one could say even another form of suicide is also very closely correlated with
loneliness.
KREM (CBS)
May 7 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_22

we are tracking a developing story out of Portsmouth, Virginia. detectives are investigating a
saturday night shooting that left three people dead. today, we are learning one of the victims
was 19-year-old shianne soles. soles is from veradale, Washington... and graduated from
central valley high school last year. she was an active-duty military member stationed at naval
medical center in portsmouth. investigators believe the shooting to be a double homicide
suicide. as we mentioned, this is a developing story. we will have updates as we get them right
here on krem 2 news, as well as on krem dot com. new cell phone footage from a traffic stop in
Texas could reopen a controversial investigation. you may remember the sandra bland case
25

from 20-15. bland was pulled over by a Texas state trooper for failing to use her signal. the 28year-old woman was arrested during the traffic stop. then she was found dead in her jail cell
three days later. her death was ruled a suicide by authorities. after watching the new video -bland's family is calling for investigators to re-open the case.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 7 • 1:56 PM

B_MAY_WASH_23

It’s estimated that for every death by suicide in the United States wanted and 35 people are
directly affected that translates to more than 6 million people a year calls man defector tells us
about a well-known doctor who is sharing her store or two years ago ABC News' chief medical
correspondent Dr. Jennifer Ashton lost her ex-husband to suicide he we were completely
devastated and shatter they have two kids together now 19 and 20 years old and thin and
family therapy you we've all been an individual therapy and we recognize that that won't be a
part of the rest of our lives Dr russian says there were no on Obvious signs of depression think
maybe they are worth a 1000 thought behind Pinot he walked away from his career abruptly I
thought they have to follow his dream Earth I thought that he was pulling away from them
marriage that may be really alert pulling away from a life of question is written a book titled life
after suicide finding courage comfort and community after unthinkable loss.
KHQ (NBC)
May 7 • 8:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_24

we have new information about a story we first told you about on khq dot com. one of the two
victims in a murder-suicide in portsmouth, virginia over the weekend has been identified as a
central valley high school graduate. 19-year-old shianne soles and a fellow service-member
were shot and killed outside a 7- 11 near the navy base where they were stationed. the shooter
then turned the gun on himself. khq's joe mchale spoke with a close friend of soles. joe ... dan
and steph family and friends of shianne soles say she just wanted to be part of something
bigger ... and make the world a better place. and that's why she joined the navy: so she could
help others. family and friends say she was a light ... that faded too soon. she was somebody
that could walk into a room and light everything up. she had such a great outgoing personality
she was friends with everybody I don't know of anybody that disliked her a life cut short. at just
19-years- old ... shianne soles was the victim of a hateful ... terrible ... and tragic act. soles was
gunned down outside this portsmouth seven-eleven late saturday night. the shooter opened
fire on soles and another service- member before taking his own life. I found out saturday,
saturday night 19-year-old devin rusk ... a childhood friend of soles .. it's starting to really hit
home for me ...says he didn't believe it when he heard the news. the first thought I had in my
head was that someone was playing a really cruel and messed up joke with me rusk has known
soles his entire life. the two lost contact for a few years ... but reconnected in middle school.
there would be moments when one of us was having a harder, rougher day and we'd come to
each other and we'd talk about it and try to give each other a more positive outlook on things
instead of focusing on the negative it was this attitude and outlook on life ... that made soles a
joy to be around. her family writes .... "her smile was contagious, and her laughter was
26

infectious. she was a friend to everyone that met her and never turned down anyone that or
night." needed help, day she was always somebody who always wanted to be there for
somebody else no matter who it was ... in my opinion soles was a cheerleader and ran track and
field at central valley high school where she graduated from just last year. funeral
arrangements are still being made. if you'd like to read the families full statement ... just go to
khq dot com.
KXLY (ABC)
May 7 • 8:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_25

Tonight friends and family are remembering shiannesoles --a central valley high school
grad...who was one of three active service members killed in what was believed to be a murdersuicide in virginia saturday.she was just 19 years old. soles was stationed at naval medical
center portsmouth, in virginia...police believe she and another woman stationed there were
shot to death at the local 7-eleven late saturday night --then, the suspect turned the gun on
himself. kxly4's taylor graham is tracking this developing story -- she spoke with soles' childhood
friend today...who remembers her as a ray of sunshine...taylor? shianne's friend devin says they
first met when they were just 2 years old --then went to middle and high school together...and
in the time he knew her --she was always looking to help others -- and be a part of something
bigger than herself...which is why he believes she enlisted in the navy.he says -- when he first
heard about her death -- he thought it was a horrible joke -- and hoped the news wasn't real.in
the days since - -he's tried to wrap his head around why someone would do this to such a
joyful, kind person. (01:22:50:22 (14)"I’m still just trying to understand why it happened and
what had driven that person to do what he did, but I don't think i'll ever want to know that full
answer. I just don't think i'll be mentally ready for that anytime soon.”) the same goes for
shianne's family...we reached out to them today -- and they passed along a statement, which
reads in part... "her smile was contagious, and her laughter was infectious. she was a friend to
everyone that met her and never turned down anyone that needed help, day or night..." "she
was driven, focused, and brave until her light faded too soon. there are no words that can
describe the pain we feel or the pain that we see within our support group around us." for the
soles' full statement --you can head to kxly dot com.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 7 • 8:07 PM

B_MAY_WASH_26

it's estimated that for every death by suicide in the United States 135 people are directly
affected that translates to more than 6 million people a year come on man defector tells us
about a well-known doctor who sharing her story two years ago ABC News' chief medical
correspondent Dr. Jennifer Ashton lost her ex-husband two suicide we were completely
devastated and shatter they have two kids together now 19 and 20 years old mean in and
family therapy we've all been an individual therapy and we recognize that that will be part of
the rest of our lives Dr ration says there were no obvious signs of depression think maybe they
are worth a 1000 thought behind Pinot he walked away from his career ERA abruptly and I
thought it was cute follow his dream of I thought that he was pulling away from our marriage
27

but maybe really pulling away from a life of fashion has written a book titled life after suicide
finding courage comfort and community after unthinkable loss meant factor KOMO news if you
or someone you know need help the National suicide Prevention lifeline.
KXLY (ABC)
May 7 • 9:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_27

Tonight, friends and family are mourning the loss of shianne soles...a central valley high grad
who was among three service members killed this weekend in a suspected murder-suicide in
portsmouth, virginia.she was just 19 years old. soles was stationed at naval medical center
portsmouth. police say she and another woman were shot and killed at a 7-eleven saturday
night -- they believe the suspect shot then killed himself... kxly4's taylor graham is working for
you tonight --she spoke with shianne's longtime friend today --to learn more about the young
woman woman she was her friends and family say ever since shianne was little --she was full of
joy --always looking to help others --so it's no surprise she enlisted to serve in the navy...now,
they can't believe she's gone. "she was the type of person, where, if a room was really dark and
sad, she'd walk in and she would be that ray of brought joy to everybody's life that she was
apart of. just never a sad moment with her around."a ray of sunshine --a bright light --was
snuffed out too soon last weekend...when 19-year-old shianne soles was shot and killed in
portsmouth, virginia --whers stationed. vo: "it was heartbreaking." on cam: "the first thing that
came to my head was that, this was just a really horrible joke. that it didn't happen."devin rusk
first met shianne when she was just 2 years old...and says for as long as he's known her -shianne's light never faded. "she always wanted to help people." “she, always from a young
age, always had that mentality of, wanting to be a part of something bigger than she was.
which, I believe is why she joined the navy." after graduating from central valley high school -she served at naval medical center for about a year. she and another woman stationed there
were visiting this 7-eleven saturday night --and police believe a man shot them, then turned the
gun on himself. "I’m still just trying to understand why it happened and what had driven that
person to do what he did, but I don't think i'll ever want to know that full answer. I just don't
think i'll be mentally ready for that anytime soon."while he may never come to terms with this -he -- and so many others -- are doing their best to shine their light --for shianne. "everybody
that i've spoken to about it, we're all trying to live for her." shianne's family sent us a statement
today -- which reads in part: "she touched the lives of many. she had a passion to be a part of
something bigger. something where she could help make the world a better place... she was
driven, focused, and brave until her light faded too soon." to read the soles' full statement -you can head to kxly dot com.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 7 • 9:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_28

Let's turn to disturbing new video in a case that's made national headlines. for the first time,
we're seeing some of what sandra bland saw during a traffic stop that escalated into her arrest.
three days later, she was found dead in a texas jail cell from apparent suicide. nbc's morgan
radford has that story. >> did you just open my car door? >> reporter: tonight, never before
28

seen footage shot by sandra bland herself of the moment a texas state trooper pointed a ununt
her during a routine traffic stop that went terribly wrong. >> you're threatening to drag me out
of my own car? >> get out of the car! >> and then you will stun me? >> I will write you up. >>
reporter: bland's own cell phone footage obtained by a dallas news station recorded her
vantage point as the trooper stopped her for changing lanes without signaling. saying he felt
threatened, he arrested her for assault. >> you're doing all this for a traffic signal? >> get over
there. >> right, yeah. yeah. let's take this to court. >> reporter: three days later, bland was
found hanging in her jail cell, her death ruled a suicide. her family believes she'd still be alive
today if officer encinia had treated her differently. they say they hadn't seen the video until
now. >> what it does without a shadow of a doubt validate that brian encinia's behavior in the
field, his lack of judgment and his inability to deescalate that situation was what was the
impetus behind why she was detained and ultimately why she died in police custody. >>
reporter: the officer was charged with perjury for lying about why he pulled her from the car.
the charges were dropped when he agreed to turn in his badge permanently. >> this video
shows that the state trooper was not afraid at all, had no reason to be afraid at all, and he
should have been prosecuted because he wasn't afraid and lied about it. >> reporter: the
department of public safety says the video is not newly discovered and has in no way been
concealed by the department, and that the video was released 12 days after the incident and
made available to bland family lawyers. the state trooper's attorney says the newly surfaced
video doesn't show anything new, but bland's family hopes it will remind the country of their
loss. >> sandra, sandy known affectionately to us, was an extraordinary young woman. she
really, really was. >> so lester, bland's family has already reached a nearly $2 million settlement.
but tonight there's new public outrage, an outcry, asking them to reopen the case, even though
the family doesn't think at this point there islly anhing they can do to file any further criminal
charges. >> all right, morgan, thank you.
KREM (CBS)
May 7 • 9:25 PM

B_MAY_WASH_29

Shianne soles was killed in a shooting in Portsmouth, Virginia. the 19-year-old, from veradale,
just graduated from central valley last year. krem 2's Whitney ward has more on what
happened. and what family members are saying. those who knew Shianne say she "was a friend
to everyone that met her..." and that she "never turned down anyone who needed help, day or
night." in fact, her family said that's why she joined the navy -- to make the world a better
place. shianne soles was active duty military stationed at naval medical center in Portsmouth.
she and another young woman, 23-year-old meaghan burns, were both killed Saturday night in
the parking lot of a 7-11 convenience store. witnesses say the gunman riddled their car with
bullets. both women died there at the scene. the gunman, we now know, was also active duty
military, from camp lejeune, in nor calina. his name is Donovan moora -- and after the shooting,
police say he shot and killed himself. so far, authorities are not saying what his motive may
have been. but witnesses recall pop, pop, pop, pop, pop...... I’m heartbroken that the shots I
heard took the lives of two young ladies. in a statement soles' family said shianne's smile "was
contagious and her laughter was infectious..." they praised her decision to go into the u-s
military, saying, "her desire to excel in everything she did led her to many different adventures.
29

from dance to cheer, track and work, school and navy, she excelled in all that she did. she was
driven, focused, and brave until her light faded too soon." the family told krem 2, there are no
words to describe the pain they're going through right now. but they said support has come in
from far and wide. and for that, they cannot say thank you enough. at this point, still no word
on whether a memorial service for shianne soles will be here in the spokane area. we'll make
sure to pass that information along to you, just as soon as you get it. in the studio, whitney
ward, krem 2 news.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 7 • 9:30 PM

B_WASH_OREG_30

Steve: one of the things that will be discussed next year is a push to ban assault rifles. gun rights
advocates will be there too. >> deb: governor ins lie signed registration to reduce suicide by
firearms. the bill prohibits obtained for Emanuel health holds from possessing firearms for six
months. almost half of the deaths are were with a gun. experts say access to guns makes it the
act on suicidal thoughts in a single moment of desperation and there are very few do-overs
when a gun is used. >> Steve: mental health issues might not be as rare as you think. one in six
Oregonians lives request a mental illness, but the Oregonhealth authority is working to fight
stigma and celebrate recovery. may is mental health month, and oha just released a video
featuring two Oregonians talking about their own struggles and recovery. in the video the two
people talk about how finding help has allowed them to manage their challenges. >>
everybody's allowed to have a bad day. it's okay to just take one and say, hey, I’m going to take
a break today. I’m going to work on myself. because I’m having a bad day right now. and that's
fine. >> the journey is not an easy journey. it's not a straight line. but we can overcome, and we
do recover. >> deb: a tech company from ohio is making it easier to tell when kids are reaching
out for help. researchers examined suicide notes and interviewed tabled patients when paired
with the lapping want of artificial intelligence, doctors can record conversations with patients
and the recording is run through an algorithm in real time. they'll know if the patient is at risk
for suicide. >> it is looking at things like inflexion in the voice, flattening of vowels, and it's
looking for change over time during the conversation. literally the software can look at the
number of nanoseconds between syllables and see if that's changing throughout the
consideration and compare that to others it knows has been identified with suicide ideation in
the past. >> deb: researchers hope the app will save lives. >>> experts say most mental health
crises are temporary and will pass. but if you need to talk to someone, there are a lot of options
out there. you canal the national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk to get hooked up with people who
can relate to what you're going through. you can also text "home" to 741741.
AM 860
May 8 • 1:05 AM

B_MAY_OREG_31

we begin this hour brand new video that's been released from sandra bland's cell phones of
sandra bland you'll remember the 28 year-old african-american from the chicago area and was
taken into custody in southeast texas following a confrontation 2015 traffic stop is according to
the new york times was found hanging in a jail cell 3 days later and what was officially ruled a
30

suicide people and claimed that any evidence that she actually been beaten and hung by the
beheadings by police in herself now there's a new video of the encounter between blair and
police officer that led to her arrest apparently video surfaced for the first time publicly on
monday night in an investigative report on dallas tv station w f.a.a. that included interviews of
bland's family and supporters they say officials concealed information they say should be made
public early on in the investigation now the authorities didn't release the trooper's dashcam
video days after bland's death effectively recording count from the front to recover was not
widely known although the authorities said the cellphone videos eggs systems had been
reported and no attempt to be made to conceal it in a statement the texas department of
public safety said the cellphone video was referred to multiple times in the department's
investigative report on the incident the video had been made available to the parties involved
in a lawsuit filed by the family of another word this video according to them was out for a long
time should be easy to substantiate for the media members of the family clinton never seen the
video had no access to video it's brand-new and case the video shows the officer involved
approaching business officer and encinia he approached an aggressive fashion started
screaming at her he then claimed he was in a different light the video shows that that is really
not accurate here's what the video sounds like yet now the now being apprehended trying to
give its failure why not me every day and you get all my hard work you you're welcome I’m glad
you're here so you don't get started to drag me out my god yeah and you do what I do know
wow wow blal do about the fbi and saying are you doing over there right yeah yeah I think this
is going that do it yeah why of the old get all the while I have my property what your boat right
now okay and then he arrested her so he said he feared for his safety which is why they
arrested her there's nothing that tape did suggest he was in fear for his safety obviously and so
there are a lot of people were saying today that the officer should be indicted for perjury
because he claims that his safety was in jeopardy and more than one time in interviews
department of public safety now it is worth remembering that and senior was in fact indicted
on a charge of perjury as the only criminal charge rising from the case grand jersey accused him
of making a false statement in his claim that he removed bland from her car more safely
conducted traffic investigation the charge was later dismissed a motion by prosecutors in
exchange for the troopers' promised he would never again work in law enforcement so
affectively was banned from being a police officer ever again and they did this presumably
because they said it is permanent ban was the best option they said they had no certainty of
obtaining a conviction on a perjury charge according to one of the prosecutors and that is
frankly from a prosecutorial point of view that is not a bad decision prosecutors in a very
difficult time prosecuting police officers one police officer says that they had reasonable
suspicion reasonable here it is very difficult to find against them because police and people
tend to have a lot of sympathy for police officers usually rightly so we also don't have beginning
of that video before he is screaming at her we don't have the video before that begins when did
he approached the car screaming at her did she say something we don't know the answer to
that but again he was charged with perjury by a grand jury prosecutors cut a deal even if he
done jail time for perjury it presumably would not been a very long time in jail time for perjury
he was banned from working for the police force does not work for the police force now now is
that linked with sandra bland hanged herself in a jail cell no is not there's no evidence
whatsoever that sandra bland was murdered in her jail cell trying to connect the two trying to
31

connect the misbehavior of this officer with systematic racism for example or what the
suggestion glenn was murdered because of her race or a cover-up for this that is a stretch
beyond imagining it is also true that people who today look at tapes like this and they
immediately assume that this is just endemic racism in the criminal justice system apparently
they've never met a police officer before because there are many good police officers there are
some bad police officers who get a kick out of being aggressive adam corolla the podcast shows
he says this all the time he's correct if you're a black person you're pulled over by a cop without
was a jerk you would thank you media coverage thank you.
AM 860
May 8 • 1:13 AM

B_MAY_OREG_32

according to one of the prosecutors and that is frankly from a prosecutorial point of view that is
not a bad decision prosecutors in a very difficult time prosecuting police officers one police
officer says that they had reasonable suspicion reasonable here it is very difficult to find against
them because police and people tend to have a lot of sympathy for police officers usually
rightly so we also don't have beginning of that video before he is screaming at her we don't
have the video before that begins when did he approached the car screaming at her did she say
something we don't know the answer to that but again he was charged with perjury by a grand
jury prosecutors cut a deal even if he done jail time for perjury it presumably would not been a
very long time in jail time for perjury he was banned from working for the police force does not
work for the police force now now is that linked with sandra bland hanged herself in a jail cell
no is not there's no evidence whatsoever that sandra bland was murdered in her jail cell trying
to connect the two trying to connect the misbehavior of this officer with systematic racism for
example or what the suggestion glenn was murdered because of her race or a cover-up for this
that is a stretch beyond imagining it is also true that people who today look at tapes like this
and they immediately assume that this is just endemic racism in the criminal justice system
apparently they've never met a police officer before because there are many good police
officers there are some bad police officers who get a kick out of being aggressive adam corolla
the podcast shows he says this all the time he's correct if you're a black person you're pulled
over by a cop without was a jerk you would thank you media coverage thank you stories he
heard from friends undoubtedly think this cop is racist this scott is out to get me because I’m
black and scott as acting appropriately probably has something to do with my race and that is
not 8 a radical conclusion to draw given you know media coverage on race and policing in the
amount of times that the black people are pulled over not unreasonable but a perfectly
reasonable explanation just on the other end which has made the cops just a jerk in other
words when the one cop pulls me over and it's not nice to me we're a jerk or demanding things
and being terrible that doesn't have to do maybe blacks are not black and has to do the copping
jerk this sort of stuff does happen to a lot of people on a regular basis it does happen through
very or fairly frequently when you have bad officers end up not on the force like this particular
officer I remember maybe a year ago as speaking in upstate michigan and we finished the we
finished the speech at a church where it finishes major more people charged is an off duty
police officer and we have to make a plane so the austin police officers as we escort your
security group to the airport she hops in the car and we start following a police car and my
32

team is all ex-military and police themselves to all law enforcement folks or people with military
experience we're following this police officer and sure enough about minutes out another
police officer gets behind us flashes lights and pull us over the police officer then gets out of his
car in extraordinarily aggressive fashion and get in the face of the driver of my vehicle reagan
we being escorted by police to an airport and another cop pulls over the other cop was
escorting us pulls over maybe a 100 yards ahead on the freeway with cop pulls over demands
to see i.d. they in the driver complied he is listen we are we are following this we're getting we
just sort we are working with police to get to this plane on time and police officers as we have I
know you're not just following a police officer armed police officer you could just go ask the
police officer mean she's sitting right there you could just a talker is or how I know that police
officer may will we have with people in person to police officers and I’m sitting back and
thinking well then should you arrest her for impersonating a police officer like is he complained
we are following a police officer in a dangerous fashion or the complaint we are following non
police officer and non-police officers impersonating a police officer with what the hell are you
talking about this police officer starts to get very guarded an aggressive with the guy he's in my
team or again all its military some of them or ex-cops and it gets to the point where we're
saying well just go a 100 yards upstream ask this police officer what's going on and it as this guy
decides to go and ask the police officer one of the guys my vehicle says maybe we should get
out because what we know don't the car why you get out the car the person was acting an
unstable fashion why would you do that are you are you crazy like you want to provoke a
confrontation angel maybe should pull up behind him but what I shot through the windshield
was this guy thinks you're pulling up behind him but these guys just bad cop in other words
sometimes they're just bad cops I don't know what this guy's a racist and you don't know either
and don't know that from the take what you do know is that this cop should not have been on
the force that requires better training message requires better so of police obviously but the
attempt to smear all police with the state or suggest that Sandra bland was therefore murdered
when the evidence is pretty good chat history of depression she wrote on her forms in jail she
had a suicide attempt one year earlier that that that does not speak of police officers murdering
someone police officers arresting people and letting them go on small charges or they go to jail
for a couple days and their lego that happens all the time does not suggestion the police
officers murdered people on a regular basis in jail depression ptsd were not the only alleged
medical issue the blend mention in the past apparently the dashboard cam recordings from lin's
arrest also shows warning the officer she has epilepsy as well she hanged herself in jail cells like
13 using a plastic garbage bag and I see why people would come to be plausible explanation of
this police racism what I’m saying is there's another plausible explanation of that it is not police
racism before we jump to the conclusion that this is either murder or racism you don't need a
little more also worth noting the state of Texas has acted to prevent this sort of thing from
happening in the future not only by kicking this guy off the police force but also with so-called
sandra bland act which I’ll explain in just one second.
AM 860
May 8 • 1:30 AM

B_MAY_OREG_33

33

higher temperatures alone have led to more suicides I win those two I just spoke we still don't
know causes suicide is increases psychiatric hospitalization if her harshly should also harm
mental health these problems will get worse as temperatures continue to rise or maybe all
these problems will get worse as you create alarmist headline is designed to make the
problems worse then we can deal with the panic with government top-down solutions man
good stuff there from CNN in nothing to do with this is all just a climate change itself not their
coverage of climate change are coming up.
KXLY (ABC)
May 8 • 2:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_30

Tonight, friends and family are mourning the loss of shianne soles...a central valley high grad
who was among three service members killed this weekend in a suspected murder-suicide in
portsmouth, virginia --where she was stationed. she was just 19 years old -- and her loved ones
remember her as a bright light -- always willing to help others. 01:21:30:24 (12) devin
rusk/childhood friend"she was the type of person, where, if a room was really dark and sad,
she'd walk in and she would be that ray of sunshine. she brought joy to everybody's life that she
was a part of. just never a sad moment with her around." around. "moment with her around."
shianne's family sent us this statement today --which reads in part..."she touched the lives of
many. she had a passion to be a part of something bigger. something where she could help
make the world a better place... she was driven, focused, and brave until her light faded too
soon. "you can read the family's' full statement -- at kxly dot com.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 8 • 9:34 AM

B_MAY_WASH_31

protesters are expected in Austin texas at the state capitol after newly revealed a video
showing the traffic stop of sandra bland in 2015 the mobile phone footage that was recorded
by bland shows the moments before her arrest she was found dead hanging in her cell 3 days
later Bland’s family wants new investigation array of area all reports as texas trooper brian
encinia demanded Sandra bland step out of her car she grab your cell phone and again the
court might argue started to drag me out my god get out the clock ended up the arrest was
captured on dash cam video but this cell phone video has not been publicly seen until now you
see me up pulled over bland in 2015 for failing to signal a lane change the encounter quickly
escalated the 28 year-old was arrested and booked in the waller county jail 3 days later she was
found dead in her cell her death was ruled a suicide.
AM 860
May 8 • 11:40 AM

B_MAY_OREG_34

new cell phone footage from the 2015 traffic stop of sandra bland and Texas shows her
perspective when she was pulled over and to get out of the car by a Texas state trooper sandra
bland's death was ruled a suicide and sparked national outrage she was found hanging from a
jail cell the new video obtained by the investigative network based in Texas has never been
34

seen by bland's family until now it shows 39 seconds from confrontation with the troupe get
out of the car now why cannot be happy it you trying to get me it's like a failure not why not
being happy and you get all my hard you you're welcome I’m glad nobody so they all get started
to drag me out my god before the release of bland's cell phone video the trooper's dashcam
footage was believed to be the only full recording of the july 2015 traffic stop the new video
shows that trooper becoming increasingly frustrated and pulling his taser and pointing toward
land and you're like you do wow now well to get out the car wife I am saying you go over there
right yeah yeah let's take this point that do it for our values saying yeah flash setting off the
unless brian encinia pulled over bland for failing to signal a lane change plans video shows the
trooper demanding she put the phone down it all the while I have read my property they do
hey good your vote right now the trooper later told authority is he wasn't being here with the
release of the video bland's family now calling for authorities to examine the criminal case
against the trooper who was eventually fired in 2016 Wayne’s family reached 1.9 million $
wrongful death settlement with the county and the texas department of public safety but they
still want the trooper to be charged even president candidate better or work posting on social
media that landscape should be reviewed some Texans now accusing dps of withholding
Bland’s cell phone video but the agency insisting the information it is and has been in public eye
and a novel technology also an issue in the city of san Francisco about to become the first city in
the nation to bail law enforcement from using facial recognition technology good policing does
not mean we're living in a police state this ordinance was introduced a few months ago by 7
cisco supervisor in tuscon and living in that safe and secure community does not mean living in
a surveillance state the ordinance would not stop the use of video surveillance but any said
your county agency wishing to implement new technology must run the proposed surveillance
by the public first however with facial recognition absolutely not we should not be giving
anyone card march to put anything place without being vetted for my position my wall says as
do all those in support of the ban the facial recognition technology is for law last July the a.c.l.u.
says it tested amazon's face surveillance tool called recognition spoke with a k the tests
included some 25000 publicly available arrest photos these see you then ran a search.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
May 8 • 12:38 PM

B_MAY_WASH_32

Sandra Bland was stopped for not signaling this is in texas in 2015 police officer tried to get her
to get out the car she says it was going to get out he quickly pulled out his Taser somebody like
you up the video from his dash cameras released but people like that's really where does the
car we can see carr going down the road another card disappears another car reappears looks
like this thing's been edited the folks there at the police did not know just weird trends the
transmission from his dashcam to the mainframe there some stuff got to get messed up there's
a whole bunch of questions fact HBO has a documentary about her death where it's like did you
really kill herself 3 days later after being in jail why than figure paint friends on the garbage bag
that was found around her and wide enough for these guys going to check on her every hour
like they're supposed to check the whole thing is just an absolute Mass her mother sued the
state of texas at 1.9 million dollars and they passed a law called Sounder Bland act which
basically says when a cop pulls somebody over for a traffic stop you have to be able to indicate
35

whether or not there is physical and use of force they want to know did the person get arrested
over the being arrested for us they want to get all the data together to find out if there's some
sort of inherent problem when it comes to motorists being stopped by police and aggressively
handle that's right and new guidance on how officers should handle escalating situation like this
the reason that her story back then this is the big now just released 4 years almost 4 years after
the incident they're releasing her own video she took cellphone video of her arrest while she
Still in the car and so there are a lot of questions now about why did this take so long you know
what the how unfair this we was this the family already settled yet the case it's not like it's a
smoking gun kind of tape but it does show you that she does not seem like someone who 3
days later would be committing suicide she was saying what you point your time to get out of
the car because I have failed the signal something of a sense she sounds more common reason
you might expect and the officer seems aggressive I understand I’m not a police officer up his
nose as we have to use aggressive language but still from a layperson when be it seems maybe
a little too aggressive he was charged interesting he was charged with perjury about why he
pulled over how housing Yeah what about it of dropping the charges that he agreed never work
in law enforcement again which seems to me of these acknowledgment of the police
Department part that he did something wrong and had her unfortunate death 3 days later does
raise questions you mentioned some of those dieting heard some of those specifics but it just
didn't make any sense this undermines family that she would do this and when we see the
incident lease from herself on a video did it it is even more surprising you know I was looking
into the case last night Here's this is interesting so after he arrested her hand after he called for
backup the officer that came in second was named Michael Kelly and Michael Kelly said had
wanted to testify before a Grand jury because I saw bruises arise a laceration or some redness
on her head I when I arrived I also said he heard the officer say I don't want a Charger with
when he win he called back at the dispatch Kelly said that he was willing to give this
information to come forward and no one ever contacted him he was going to basically say
listen this something went wrong that arrest and eat and there's some question as to why he
pulled in the first place in the final out of the guys in the jail County jail were caught on perjury
as well and falsifying state evidence when they said we checked on her every hour when really
they didn't is the video showed they had so I mean the whole thing just a terrible loss of life and
if he brings up did she really kill herself Yes absolutely that's in that is out it's outrageous that it
issues even I still before us the article I of you saw the article on vox John I think that one Here's
one of the things I find disturbing so a set-aside that they eat the question of suicide and D you
know the fingerprints on fingerprints about them both there about her death is also why his
take 4 years for this video to be released on the side a couple of other examples.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 8 • 7:07 PM

B_MAY_WASH_33

for the 1st time we are seeing cell phone video of the traffic stop that escalated into her arrest.
a Dallas news station fought for the footage; the troop appointed a stun gun after stopping her
for changing lanes without signaling. she was found dead in a Texas jail cell from apparent
suicide. that’s today’s personal look shot that cell phone video herself. it shows how it all
started. >>> dragging me out of my own car, get out of the car. you're doing all of this.
36

>> get over there. >> right, ghaffur let's take this to court. >> the trooper says that he felt
threatened during the interaction, and he arrested her for assault. three days later, she was
found dead in her jail cell authorities ruled her death a suicide. her family still believes she
would be alive today if the officer had treated her differently. they also say they have not seen
this video until now. accusing authorities of withholding the tape. >> without a shadow of a
doubt validates that brian's behavior in the field, his lack of judgment, his inability to really deescalate the situation, was what was the impetus behind why she was detained and ultimately
why she died in police custody. >> the trooper was charged with perjury for lying about why he
pulled her over. those charges were eventually dropped when he decided to turn in his badge
permanently. the department of public safety says the video is not discovered and has in no
way been concealed by the department. again, a tv station said it had the fight for this video.
2016 Bland’s family reached a nearly $2 million civil settlement with Texas authorities, but now
there's new public attention with local residents calling for investigators to reopen her case. the
families is at this point I don't believe any further criminal charges can be filed. >>> is
interesting, I see in a situation, why don't you just listen to them, the problem with that is,
when you've been picked on so often, over and over and over again, I can see that response, I
remember being in college and being in the car with my friends, we were doing nothing, we
were drinking, we weren't smoking, there were no drugs, we were just riding in a car, and when
they pulled over, it's women that gets pulled over, that's a normal thing, but insisting in the
pouring rain that we get out of the car. and then you just wondering, why am I being, why are
we all being asked to get out of the car in the rain, and what are we being pulled over for?
when it happens to you in these cases that escalate, it gets to the point, why are my brother,
lots of stuff, when you just happen to be walking around. >> and when their emotions involved,
you would hope that your police officer would be the one who can bring things back down. so, I
mean, people are going to get emotional. >> and there's a new trend of people pulling out their
phones and recording these altercations which heightens emotions, and makes it weird for
everybody involved, so you don't know where is this going, why are you recording this, is
something about to happen? it's an awful situation. >> but there's a reason that so many cities
have decided to equip officers with body cams, because the video is helpful to keep everyone
honest. so, it does frustrate me when I hear them sing, will turn it off, why? why turn it off? if
you don't have anything to hide, leave it. it could save somebody, to. >> it could also defend
those officers’ actions. >> and this is coming from police officer’s daughter. 30 years.
KEZI (ABC)
May 8 • 7:15 PM

B_MAY_OREG_35

nearly 4 years after Sandra Bland’s controversial traffic stop, new cell phone video shows the
arrest from Sandra Bland’s point of view. ... and now questions are being raised as to why the
footage was not released sooner. here is a look at the video... "get out of the car now. why am I
being apprehended? you're trying to give me a ticket for your failure. out of the car. why am I
being apprehended you guys open my car door. you just opened my car door. so you got you
threatening to drag me out of my own car. get out of the car. (crosstalk) wow wow wow. get
out of the car. failure to signal. no, you're doing ominous. well you know over there right. yeah
37

yeah. let's take this to court. let's do it. for failure to signal, yep, for failure to signal. get off the
phone. I’m not on the phone. I have a right for sure. this is my property. this is my property. put
your phone down right now." three days after her arrest bland was found hanging in a jail cell.
her death was ruled a suicide, but her family argued she should never have been arrested in the
first place. state trooper brian encinia initially stated he feared for his safety during that stop.
but in 2016 a grand jury rejected that claim. he was indicted for perjury. but the charge was
dismissed in 2017 after he agreed never to work in law enforcement again. the video was
published Monday by Dallas tv station w-f-a-a in partnership with the non-profit news
organization "the investigative network". they say the video is not newly discovered evidence
and was not concealed by the department.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
May 8 • 7:38 PM

B_MAY_WASH_34

suicide, depression, and other mental health issues can seem to come out of the blue. one tech
company says hat discovered a way to make clear what is often not so before people either
hurt themselves or others. reporter brad underwood shows us how it works. >> the therapist
simply hits the record button and it's now working. >> reporter: the recorded conversation is
then run through an algorithm in real time. doctors and therapists will know if a patient is at
risk of suicide or violence and how to proceed with treatment options. >> it is looking at things
like inflection in the voice and flattening of vowels, and it's looking for change over time during
the conversation. >> reporter: the al go rite sum based on natural language, warning signs,
suicide letters, and a.i. >> literally the software can look at the number of nan no seconds
between sill balances and see if that's changing and compare those to others that it knows have
been identified with suicide ideation. >> reporter: the children's home provides a wide range of
services for kids. >> having another decision support tool means we're able to identify that
many more kids and hopefully save lives. what we're really interested in is trying to save lives.
>> reporter: right now, three school districts in the greater cincinnati area are using the app
with students with parental permission. >> I eve tbin rural communities out in adams county. I
was in the inner cities in cincinnati public, now aim in the suburbs. it's the same thing. mental
health issues are on the rise. >> reporter: Craig says his district has four full-time therapists, and
they're busy. >> when I first got here we had like 75 kids. we're almost to 200 that are seeing a
therapist on a regular basis. >> reporter: so far more than 70 therapy sessions at schools have
been recorded through the app. >> 15 more scal districts will conduct trials during therapy
sessions beginning in the fall. >>> if you or anyone you love is having suicidal thought, there is
always help available. the national suicide prevention lifeline is available by phone and on-line
24/7. call 1-800-273-talk. or go to suicidepreventionlifeline.org
KHQ (NBC)
May 8 • 8:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_35

we have some new information on the central valley grad who was killed in what appears to be
a double- murder/suicide in Virginia. friends of shianne soles tell us her funeral is set for May
18th but they're still working out the specifics of where... when... and if it will be open to the
38

public. soles... a naval corpsman stationed in portsmouth, Virginia... was found shot to death at
a 7-11 store along with another naval corpsman...meghan burns. a third corpsman... donovan
moora... is believed to have killed them... then himself. the exact relationship between the
three has not been disclosed.
KTVL (CBS)
May 8 • 8:40 PM

B_MAY_OREG_36

we turn now to what some military officials call an enduring and pressing emergency, the rise in
veteran suicides. a congressional subcommittee held a hearing today on military suicide
prevention. on average, about 20 veterans die this way every day. since 2017, at least 25
veterans have taken their lives on the grounds of v.a. facilities-- seven this year alone. dean
Reynolds has more on these "heroes in crisis." >> this is my favorite picture of us together. >>
reporter: when was this? >> this was about two years before he died. >> reporter: Alissa
Harrington’s brother, Justin miller, died by suicide in February of last year in the parking lot of
this veterans' administration hospital. a marine veteran, he was 33. Gregory miller is Justin’s
father. >> he wanted to be in a military band. >> reporter: Justin made the band, but the
marines thought he could make another contribution, as a marksman in Iraq, manning a
checkpoint with bomb-sniffing dogs. >> if the dog sat down, pull the trigger. those were his
orders. he said he did that for weeks, day in, day out. >> reporter: when he left the marines in
2007, his family says he had changed. while he still volunteered to play his trumpet at various
occasions, he was increasingly depressed and even suicidal. eventually, he sought help at a v.a.
hospital. >> we said we loved each other. I kissed him. and that's the last time I saw my son. >>
reporter: but after three days at the v.a... >> he went out to his car. he looked at his phone. he
saw the text from my dad saying, "i love you, come home." and at some point, he took his own
life. >> reporter: experts in this field say veterans who kill themselves on v.a. grounds-- and
there were at least four just last month-- are making a statement about their treatment. a
federal investigation of miller's death said the Minneapolis v.a. made multiple mistakes, from
not scheduling a follow-up, to overlooking his access to firearms. >> we have people, but
they're not trained the way they're supposed to be. >> reporter: some 6,000 veterans kill
themselves every year. >> we have, in the last year, had 240 interventions, whe we've actually
stopped veterans from taking their lives. >> reporter: robert wilke is the v.a. secretary. his
department serves 9.5 million people. since October, the v.a. has screened 900,000 veterans
for mental health issues. >> of that 900,000, we culled it down to 3,000. 3,000 veterans that our
medical professionals say might be at risk. and we are monitoring them. >> reporter: what does
that monitoring entail? >> that means calls, that means visits, bringing them into our centers.
>> reporter: in justin miller's case, anti-depressants came in the mail from the v.a., two days
after he died. >> and the worst part of his funeral was that they didn't have a live trumpet
player. there was no one there to play for him. >> reporter: the silent trumpet at his grave was
a gift from his dad.

39

B_MAY_OREG_37

KMVU (FOX)
May 9 • 2:26 AM

jesse: welcome back. we now turn to the heart-wrenching reality of teen suicide clusters. it is a
documented phenomenon happening across the countries with kids as young as 11. tragically
killing themselves and inspiring others who are struggling to take their own lives. now those left
behind or speaking out determined to stop the suicide spiral. >> this is a big loss. I think about
him every day, everyday. >> jesse: that is catherine, a heartbroken mother from utah lamenting
the loss of her 16-year-old son, chandler who suicide spurred six more suicides in his high
school in just over a year. >> when I look around, I’m like my think I live in the same place. and
taking their own lives. this is not acceptable. >> we are living in a time teen suicide is epidemic
proportions. the numbers have increased by 50-100% over the last ten years. >> jesse: 14th the
risk of suicide contagion or cluster is a grave concern. >> the information gets out and thin kind
of trick or somebody who might already be having those thoughts to act on them. >> jesse: and
its happening coast to coast. as "daily mail" reported, two parkland school shooters survivors
killed themselves days apart. in ohio school district a tragic 16 suicides in six months and east
valley arizona, an astonishing 3119 suicides in just 15 months. >> in utah, it has become the
number one reason why kids die. I never knew my son was thinking about taking his own life.
>> jesse: heading into his senior year here and him and hide, her son chandler was a star
student and seem to have a lot of friends. >> self-talk and love to travel with us. we had been
over the world together. >> jesse: on the last night of his life, chandler made plans to go to a
party with his friends. >> they left the house in great spirits. that was the last time I saw him
alive. I found him in the morning. he took his life where I sit right now. >> jesse: each suicide
that followed chandler brought a wave of hopelessness and desperation. >> this is really sad
but the kids are talking about who will be the next person. >> many of these communities have
these contagion or clusters because no one is talking about it. pretending it didn't exist, that is a
shameful thing and forces people to withdraw instead of ask for help. >> my anxiety went
through the roof. I didn't feel like I have friends. I was those kids, the school kind of became a
really hard place for me to be. >> I started seeing at home, spending time in his room and not
wanting to come out. he cried all the time. we were worried. was he going down that path? was
he suicidal? >> you don't know that feeling until you go through it. >> jesse: former student
harley jessop smelling on the outside but writing deeply on the inside. >> you're so pretty like
nothing happened to you but you seem like you have a happy life. I felt so empty and I felt like I
couldn't reach out to anyone. I felt like it was my secret to keep. I just decided one night, like
come undone. >> jesse: carly tried to overdose but ultimately got cold feet and called a friend
and ryan also got help in time and renewed purpose. >> coupled with what happened last year
is one of my personal goals. >> jesse: the families touched by suicide; closure is elusive. I don't
really understand the circumstances, but I do understand that unresolved feelings. and
emotions. and I hadn't taken the steps to really have a conversation. >> I think the more we can
talk about feelings and how to deal with them, the better we are as a parent to stop it. suicide
is actually preventable. >> jesse: and if you or someone you know needs help, there is a crisis
text 174-1741. of course, you can always call the national suicide prevention line at 1-800-273
talk.
40

B_MAY_WASH_36

KING-SEA (NBC)
May 9 • 2:05 PM

you need to talk to somebody. they give them tools in terms of what they can do. I think that is
important. I think that all of the steps aimed at young people are extremely important,
particularly in this day and age when we have so much violence. there are indications that
people are not as well as they could be. >> they are under a lot of stress. I’m thinking of that,
substance abuse. just the loss of a job. there are 1 million things that go into this but all of
those might benefit from early intervention. when we talk about mental health and trying to
remove the stigma, what do you think parents might do or should do to get our kids conversing
about this. we have talked to them about a sports injury but why wouldn't we talk to them
about anxiety and depression which is skyrocketing among young people. >> we should. there
is a spike in the suicide rate for young girls. >> it's just terrifying. >> from ages 15-24. that is a
huge spike in 2018. we need to prevent all of the suicides that we can. I think communication
and education and destigmatize nation is so important. there is no shame in having a mental
health issue. 1 in five individuals have that issue in their families. either acute or chronic. now,
we are living in the age of anxiety. there is going to be even more people that need the extra
help they need a therapist or doctors’ evaluations or support from their families and their
friends. that starts with education and communication within the family and within the schools.
teams or anywhere that you find kids. >> it is interesting that the university of washington has
done a fantastic job of curriculum for athletes so there is somebody to ask them how they are
doing. and I thought, why are we not asking all kids this. and helping them deal with this. when
you say anxiety I am not sure what has ramped it up. you have lived this very public and indepth life. you have seen a lot of people in a lot of countries over time. what do you think is
different about us today that has ramped up the pressure on kids and adults. >> I think it is a
very different world. my goodness, now, you have social media and bullying. I work with the
clemente foundation and it is a foundation where people are trying to educate people about
how devastating online bullying can be to a person. it can lead to young people committing
suicide. and, it was started by the parents of a young man that jumped off of a bridge and killed
himself. there are things in groups like that where we need to be supportive. I think it has
ramped up because of the general condition we see the world in. and perhaps even our
country. I think that adds to the age of anxiety. but, to get back to, there is social media people
are on their phones all the time and playing games. and there are other things. there are other
things available to people. it is just, there is so much >> I feel like we were just on the cusp of
the cell phone thing and I didn't have to deal with as much of that when my kids were in that
age group. there are things that parents are working two jobs or there are others that -- we
have a big huge mix. and life is hard. >> so you changed it to committing suicide to dying by
suicide. and that is an important switch. we have to make that distinguish meant there. >>
that's right. I grew up with that first phrase and I have a first cousin whose son died by suicide.
>> I’m so sorry. >> thank you. because I am more involved in that issue that I have been before,
I learned the correct terminology. a person does not commit suicide. they actually take their
life. they die by an act of suicide. that is why it is important to get that out. >> I am just learning
this but we talked to experts earlier and we talked about that very thing and how to think about
41

things. I think that is where the name change could help. we need to be thoughtful about how
we change our words and look at our understanding. >> I was reading an article about how you
talk to a child with a family member who has died by suicide. people don't know what to say
sometimes. sometimes you can't say anything. sometimes you just need to be there and
comfort someone. if you saw somebody that got hit by a car with a broken leg, would you just
walk on? that is not really going to heal it. it is the same with mental health issues and the
condition. I hope we can get there. we are making progress. I think there is less stigma than
there was years ago. but we still have a long way to go. we do that through communication and
education. the brain is part of the body and it is very important to do that. >> I appreciate when
people that are high profile get involved in this. you have taken photos of people that are living
in this situation. what has your interface been like? what might we want to understand? >> I
think it is important to understand that there are so many causes for this. you can see her, she
was a vic them. she just couldn't pay the rent anymore. there is a myriad of reasons why people
become homeless. she probably had another doctor. she wasn't getting treatment. so she was
washing up in bathrooms. her dog was with animal protection. this was a family assistance
shelter and her whole family brought in and were being cared for. and that is really what we
need to do in every city. it was completely untreated. but very kind. a very nice person. >> just
imagine the desperation and people that are having so much trouble getting help. >> that's
right. they are very desperate. unless they will agree to do it you can't help them. >> this is all
just steps away from the seats of power. >> that's right. but the thing about seattle, there are
many reasons that people become homeless. sometimes you just miss a paycheck. many
people are working but they are still living out of a car because they can't afford rent. a.b. they
have a mental health issue or some issue in their family. there are so many reasons. so, this
program is changing their lives. I am so impressed with it. they are not just a statistic. they
come into a program and they become part of a community that offers them some admiration
for their work and respect. and a sense of belonging. >> and we all need that. we all want to be
seen by each other. and arch is just a remarkable organization. we appreciate your support in
that.
KDRV (ABC)
May 9 • 2:17 PM

B_MAY_OREG_38

the month of may is mental health awareness month. the u-s department of health calls it a
critical health problem. according to the national alliance on mental illness... 46 million
americans experience mental illness in a given year... but only 41 percent get help for it. the
problems range from depression and anxiety to substance abuse. some ways to stay mentally
healthy are to get proper sleep... watch what you eat... get outside whether to walk your dog or
socialize.... stay active... and even limit your screen time. and if you or anyone you know is
having suicidal thoughts... you can see all the contact information for the hotlines right here on
your screen. you can also send a text.

42

KATU-POR (ABC)
May 9 • 9:15 PM

B_MAY_OREG_39

not showing the video was hard and looking back on it and see where it has gotten now is a
blessing. >> a friend of a suicide victim can't show the tribute he helped to make to other kid
suicide. that was the message at george fox university. they think that 0 suicides is something
that is in our grasp. >> reporter: they want to bust the myth and it might give somebody whys.
doctors and teachers and kids out there is an it is never bad to talk about it. in fact that's where
we need to start. you can't help but let it get to you. a video tribute to a friend who killed
himself. >> there is a sense of community that is lost. >> jj ritdz helped to make it to show that
we are in this together. but apparently not everybody is. >> our school district would not let us
show it because they say it was not a smart idea. the student were angry and frustrated about.
the video got around and he calls that a blessing. the sxfrgzs are what is needed and it needs to
start in school where kid spend this time. >> a teacher can look at a student and say I am
concerned. are you okay and planning to hurt yourself and what can I do to help great game.
one suicide is too many, that's what dr. coffee thinks. he compared the numbers and said 99.9
quality control was acceptable. babies would not be able to land. suicide should be held to the
standard. >> what is the right target? four suicides or 12? does that include your sister or school
teacher in if you don't know how to talk about suicide. don't be embarrassed. you don't need
permission to ask to help if you see someone with a chest pain or flat tire you stop and ask
them and offer a hand. if you need to talk, there are people standing by. their number is 1- 800273- talk.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 10 • 4:01 AM

B_MAY_WASH_37

seattle police were responding to a domestic violence calling lower clean and last night the
woman inside this apartment told nine one one her boyfriend had a knife and was trying to
assault her. they were on scene within six minutes of that call. they gave several commands to
open the door you see them it took them more than 30 seconds to kick down this door. it all
really happened so quick police say this is an active ongoing investigation and in addition to
spdr king county sheriff's office is also doing an independent investigation shootg and it's
important to note the woman in this apartment she was not injured in all of this. neither were
the officers that responded. yeah it's unfortunate anytime a life has to be taken when you look
at that they have what they call the twenty one foot rule which is a person with a knife can go
from just completely standing still to getting to somebody to an officer within a second half. in
this case they had their guns drawn he's not obeying commands then he knows they're
breaking down the door. he knows that they're coming in. yeah he's continued to advance on
them it almost looks like a suicide by cop to me or something we don't know of course what's in
his head but he's very well aware that these officers have their guns out and he's still continues
to advance on them how they determine whether a shooting his so-called good is would have
another reasonable officer at objective officer do the same thing in that situation. the answer is
gonna be yes and it's very clear and they were very clear to release this 24 hours after it
43

happened last night to give the public and opportunity to see exactly what happened from
several different angles several different angles and we are really seeing that in those videos
there they're not hiding anything so we do know exactly what's going on in this situation. all
right. the investigation continues to moan thank you for that look tonight.
KHQ (NBC)
May 10 • 5:56 AM

B_MAY_WASH_38

although she felt alone, julia's situation is not unique. in fact. one in five children suffer from a
mental illness. >> I was always very aware of anxiety, but the depression caught me off guard.
you would think that my husband and I both being in the field would know what to be looking
for. but I was surprised at the place that she was in versus what -- how we thought she was
doing. >> it got to the pre I in my freshman year I started to self-harm because I didn't know
what to do and I needed an outlet for my pain. it was end of my junior here in high school
where things were reaching a breaking point. I didn't think I could do it alone. >> she started to
see a therapist, but the situation started to escalate. >> I felt like I could not live the life I was
living and that seemed like the only plausible solution would be to kill myself. >> I can
remember that weekend so vividly where it seemed like she told me that she didn't think she
could keep herself safe. >> julia was fighting for her life, and that's when her parents brought
her to nationwide children's hospital where she stayed for three days as an in-patient. >> I was
so embarrassed and at my lowest point and I worried there was more to me than these
illnesses that I was struggling with. I learned that thoughts are just thoughts. they are not facts.
>> slowly with medication and therapy julia learned how to cope with her illness. >> I learned
that I’m able to find help, that I’m able to find relief, that I’m not alone in my fight. there are
professionals out there who are willing to do what it takes to get me a place of a life worth
living. >> even a happy life. >> over the summer, last summer, me and my sisters went to a
taylor swift concert. I know that doesn't sound like a huge deal, but that was something, you
know, I would sing and dance to with my sisters as a kid. and to be able to be with them and to
genuinely enjoy it, you know, I just felt joy and I felt freedom. >> with that new found freedom
julia has decided to forward the mission and studying to be a social worker. >> I want to be able
to be that example for hurting kids, you know, I do get it, I walked these halls. it's possible to
get better. >> now two and half years after her stay at nationwide children's she's returning as
an advocate for the on our sleeves movement. >> it feels like redemption to go back stable. >> I
knew that not only asking for help okay, but it's worth it. I get to decide what I want to do, what
I want to say, not my mental illnesses. >> and a special surprise for a very special woman. >>
we're so excited to present you with the very first big lots foundation behavioral health
scholarship in the amount of $10,000 to help you pursue your dream of becoming a social
worker. >> I would tell anyone who is struggling or anyone who knows someone who is
struggling, that it's okay to talk about it, that you need to talk about it. you can't heal in silence.
it's not your fault, and it's not always going to be this way. you know, there is a light at the end
of this. >> how awesome is she? >> incredibly impressive and so important to spread that
message from her perspective. >> the fact that she's talking and wearing a shirt that says I
break stigmas. sure is. it's all about conversation, and for more information on how parents can
spot signs of mental illness and their kids go to today.com/parents. >> and know that you're not
44

alone if you're feeling this way. you can reach out to the suicide prevention lifeline at 800-2738255 or text home, h-o-m-e to 741741.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 10 • 8:14 AM

B_MAY_OREG_40

his morning the duke and duchess of cambridge and the duke and duchess of sussex. >>are
launching a new text messaging service in the uk. it's called shout this service provides free 247
support to anyone experiencing a mental health crisis. shout is operated by a team of
volunteers who were trained online to create a safe space for people experiencing mental
health challenges the ceo for the royals foundation says shout was inspired by the crisis text
line which has been running in the us since 2013 and important journey is set to begin today
involving a man and his tractor you see he travels the us working to help wounded veterans.
>>sinclair's national correspondent christine present. how is live in Germantown maryland
where he'll begin his 5500-mile track. hi christine. hey there brands elegant morning racks at
the headquarters of. >>operation 2nd chance this organization supports combat wounded
injured in el veterans on a step out of the way. just you can see the tractor is here the driver is
here taking pictures with some fans who have come to see him off in just 2 hours I feel be
departing this area but you know we actually went to talk to him last week near his hometown
near lancaster pennsylvania and just talk to him about why he would dare to make such a
journey on a tractor it's a journey i've installed this wishes. he. >>didn't have to make but he's
doing so for the 3rd time how long is this going to take. >>this approach to take around 6
months of 5500 miles 5500. >>miles for a purpose to raise awareness about issues facing
military veterans and 1st responders. these guys and girls at home back from. >>from the war
from Afghanistan iraq and vietnam coming back at their kind of just just back to the civil life
some here have a struggle >>according to the department of veterans affairs about 20 veterans
die by suicide each and every day others bear the scars of posttraumatic stress syndrome >>or
physical wounds like former sharpshooter jeremy jackson who approached ivan a few years
back >>he said I would just really appreciate what you're doing I have a gift for you. he has been
a box I open up and it is purple >>that purple heart has traveled with him ever since. in his
tractor that rarely goes faster than 15 miles an hour on back country roads across america he
may not be a veteran himself. he's actually a retired farmer >>but it doesn't change what he
sees as his primary mission. I’m hoping they'll bring some joy in their hearts to help to realize
that they're not forgotten. and we wanted to give you a live look at just some of the. >>people
who have gathered to give ivan the proper send off this morning as far as this journey this time
around he's not going to make it all the way to the pacific northwest in the past. he has gone
from coast to coast. but this journey he'll head west from here and then in a red lodge montana
we'll start heading south go through alabama and wind up in florida about 6 months from now.
FM News 101 KXL
US May 10 • 8:40 AM

B_MAY_OREG_41

the news of boy was shot and killed east of salem police and state and say this happened
around noon details are very limited for now the victim was a juvenile and several law
45

enforcement agencies are helping in the investigation what he is still not known what led up to
the shooting or if there are any suspects suicide it's gone from something we shouldn't talk
about to something we need to talk about k excels mike turner checked with a psychologist
who tells us sport why dr robin Henderson is the prominent chief executive of behavioral health
she was one of a number of local and national mental health experts hearing from students at
george fox university about the need to talk about the subject on the you made a great point if
it unified happened there and how upend it matter who won't talk about it she would yell think
within 10 minutes after they have a very much a social media network but he in an arm dr.
henderson says the key is to keep people engaged in talking about the future and what life
would be like if they weren't around she says we need to overcome a big myth the doctor says
talking about suicide does not encourage.
FM News 101 KXL
May 10 • 10:38 AM

B_MAY_OREG_42

times definitely changing when it comes to suicide experts say it's time to talk about it not
cover it up ksl might turn talk to a mental health expert about this the chief executive of
behavioral health problem dr. robin henderson she was on a panel of mental health experts
hearing from students george fox university some of the man crisis line set up to provide peerto-peer communication so would you tell a person who wants to kill himself she thinking it
could be people in the conversation and keeping the pocket and a lot of time if you can work
the hatred that call it they and in the document focusing on the future and speaking with a
shred of hope we can get them through that period of time you can get them to help dr.
henderson says even if the school won't talk about it most of the students will know the truth
thanks to social media.
KOHD (ABC)
May 10 • 11:03 AM

B_MAY_OREG_43

reporter: good morning, again, to you, amy. based on that year-long trial that they did, it seems
there are a lot of people under the age of 25 here in the uk who are suffering from depression
and suicidal thoughts. so here you have now the dukes and dutchs of cambridge and sussex
teaming up for one common message., the fab four launching a new mental health initiative
today. it's called shout. a text messaging service for people struggling with mental health issues.
>> we want to develop new, innovative ways for people to have conversations wherever they
are and whenever they need someone to talk to. or>> reporter: tur 24-ho help line is based on
the u.s. crisis text line and the young royal’s version has been unofficially running for a year. >>
harry, meghan, katherine and I have been able to see the service working up close and are very
excited for its future. >> reporter: tackling mental health has been a top priority or focus
particularly for the princes who have been widely praised for being open about their own
mental health problems in the wake of the death of their mother, princess Diana, in 1997. >>
mental health is a hugely important issue to the young royals. they recognize that it's a big
problem, and they really want to make a difference. one of the areas where they believe they
can do that is by using their profiles to alleviate the stigma about talking about this. >>
46

reporter: prince harry opening up during his trip yesterday saying basally how becoming a
parent himself also makes him realize how much he misses his own mom so some really sweet
and tender moments from him there and also some really sweet and adorable baby gifts that
he received including a little invictus onesie which is just too cute, guys. >> his smile says it all,
linsey. Thanks so much. >> it sure does
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 10 • 1:11 PM

B_MAY_WASH_39

Britain's Prince William and Prince Harry otherwise Kate Meghan have launched a new phone
messaging service called shall it's to help people suffering a mental health crisis shards is you
text line to support people who need a voice in a tough moment they'll wrists when he was 7 I
connect people to trade balance is to provide help at a time when you most need it enabling
them to move from crisis to calm and final terms of course and William P years in his video
about the initiative texting his private and silent it is a whole new way to find help provide
things his supports you can have a conversation anywhere and anytime this school houses
almost anywhere I’m critics on sense to me you know she missed us knowing it has the
potential to reach a final dozens of all the people every day they really want to be able to do
something to help the big talk of what they bring it and deviates the stigma around who can
about this shake we want to do our best to make it easier for people to stop to get the help
they need and crew should be what's it about a year into the safe ways for people to have
conversations wherever they are whatever time they need someone to toward to the princes
have both widely been praised for being open about their own struggle with their mental
health the wake of the death of their mother Princess diana 1997 they've been meeting with
volunteers along with Duchess kate and meg in the loss few months shy just talk what can
quietly behind the scenes carry Meghan confident I will be able to see this is what your choice
and all very excited for the future during the trial there were 60000 text conversations mostly
people under the age of 25 years old wanted to talk about suicide anxiety and depression this is
a free service and clearly a much-needed service.
FM News 101 KXL
May 11 • 3:40 AM

B_MAY_OREG_44

30,000 people die for anywhere ranging from homicide suicide actor best over 63% of those
suicide car at yes but I don't understand how that that means that wish you the best the
become more than me let me let me stop you right let me let me go back look don't make sure
we're were covering every point of your question here so here the number one what do you
think 35 or 36 and it's okay so it is all right so it's a statistic that you're saying that we have good
okay you're telling me we have essentially gun violence problem and you caught me a statistic
that included yes sadly it's like over 63% suicides which would then I guess I would have to
wonder while the wooden I’m not saying it isn't but wait a minute that's a strong man knows
and made I’m not I’m saying it's not a problem but what I am what I am suggesting if they
talked at what I’m suggesting is don't you think that because we've always had firearms in the
united states in fact millions and millions of them but it has only been recently in am with
47

young people that we have had this huge problem and when you look at that and you look at
the statistic that's over _sixty_ _three_ % of these deaths due to an illegal used most often
illegal to possess a firearm is because of suicide that does raise a question for you as to maybe
there's something that is not about a firearm but maybe it's by mental health can get to know
because one thing i've learned covering she would find my dad and I think they will not cover
they see you thanks here who in the fall semester horas state university I was someone from
the county's she does she think hard about how when you own a gun a machine gun and a lot
to be easier to be conducted an incomplete so please forget polls someone whom you can
jump off the golden gate bridge issue I’m working with a robbery or something and it most
likely to jump off a bridge there waiting for them to get a guy she thought about is a pre
supposition that the firearm causes mental onus no better for the environment he mental
illness to become more agile and neck and end and till now yeah and but that no one has ever
won no one has ever committed suicide the all the also said with firearms that right no I don't
think will happen soon thank you the juiciness significant portion it we have fire mike & mike
the red flag law that we last year I understand that it's controversial but I think people who
work and commitment the pow of what y need to say unstable person I want to make a
decision it's not like he got it done but beat he's so let me ask you this do you think that suicide
rates are specifically tied to gun sales know I think suicide rate hike from mental illness and that
they only needed to reduce fear a need for new people to get done what few have significant
drop in suicide rate well so I think it's you know it's all moot meet you wow right but here's the
thing with that to reduce them we know which civil commitments are we know the processes
to adjudicate someone mentally unfit wire we not adjudicating these people mentally unfit and
ineligible to purchase or possess because that's illegal pathway that's been established and
when it's used it's incredibly effective in terms of making sure that someone who is mentally
and eligible due to the danger that they pose to themselves or others they're unable to actually
get a firearm so why aren't we why instead don't we do that I believe in your heart but yeah we
have that white why don't people you don't people use that process why don't I think the big
thing all of these things yes I actually have someone and I know someone who is the by
marriage in my family who was adjudicated mental and and eligible like my dad in this I so why
don't we do that my question why don't we use that why don't people use that process
goodman what I’m not sure that's entirely true I don't know because right now I would like my
god let's get table he can get those thank you our word and you have to have a gun in the
house we don't want that to happen you should bet for not just him but in england right now
what you're like me you're human body I own he would be delighted if he is declared ineligible
if he's ever bad and this isn't this isn't 18 u.s.c. 9 22 is is b section is that is the actual statute
and federal law that is sent to house someone can be how if you are you are eligible if you've
ever been involuntarily committed you're ineligible if you've ever been adjudicated mentally
unfit not only that but on the _forty_ _four_ _seventy_ _three_ they feel when you purchase a
firearm all of these questions are also asked have you ever been involuntarily committed have
you ever been adjudicated mentally unfit those are immediate things to make render one
ineligible and that is stored in the national crime information center so when you go and
purchase a firearm you go through the next jack mixed checks the doubt that is within see icy
and if those two and that's two of the categories that is included in the icy and someone it has
those marks on their therapy if they've been involuntarily committed there in eligible because
48

their mentally dangerous and they're denied that's why we have this system it small that hey
we've got that and regulation.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 11 • 11:44 AM

B_MAY_OREG_45

wesleigh: welcome back to katu news. >>> suicide is a difficult subject to tackle, especially
among high school students. that was the topic of a meeting this week to drew attention to the
problem. as joe english reports, the doctors, teachers, even students say it's never wrong to
talk about it. in fact, that is the place to start. >> joe: you can't help but let it get to you. a video
tribute to a friend who killed himself. >> there's a sense of community that is lost. >> joe: j.j.
riddle helped make it along with other kids and the staff at his school to show that we're all in
this t but apparently not everybody is. >> our school district did not let us show it because they
said demographically it wasn't a smart idea, which a lot of students were angry and kind of
were frustrated about. >> joe: riddle says the video's gotten around thanks to other sharing,
and he calls that a blessing. the conversations it's starting exactly what the doctors here say is
needed. and they say it needs to start in school, where kids spend most of their time. >> we
need to make it okay for teacher to look at a student and say, I’m concerned. are you okay? are
you planning to hurt yourself? and what can I do to help? >> great game. are you okay? >> joe:
because one suicide is too many. that's what dr. justin coffee thinks he was the main speaker,
he compared some numbers and said if 99.9% quality control was acceptable in other areas,
two planes at sea-tac would be unsafe to land today. 12 babies would be given to the wrong
parents. suicide should be held to the same standard. >> if the number isn't zero, if that's not
the right target, what's the right one? four suicides? 12? and if 12, does that 12 include your
sister? my mother? my school teacher? I have no other morally acceptable target. >> joe: joe
english, katu news news. >> announcer: the following segment is sponsored by northwest
honda dealers. >> wesleigh: in today's "kind is better" report, we are focusing on a group of kids
that we don't hear from often. boys. according to the cdc, between 1999 and 2017, girls
attempted suicide almost three times as often as boys, but boys were four times more likely to
die by suicide. >> I didn't feel like I had any options. I didn't feel I could talk to anyone. I tried to
kill myself. >> I just didn't know how to cope with it. >> I was just existing. I didn't want to, but I
just wa>> wesleigh: the stigma around mental health exists for everyone, but it seems to be
worse for boys, especially if they're taught that being strong means not caring or showing
emotion. so how do we raise boys to feel comfortable expressing their emotions and to be
compassionate? debora knapp talked with two authors who say it's an important process. >>
deb: we've all heard the phrases through the years -- boys don't cry. man up. rub some dirt on
it, you'll be fine. >> the boy code. which is all those things that are unhealthy, be tough, be
strong, don't cry. you don't have feelings, etc. >> deb: it's the wrong attitude airmd at young
kids, especially boys, according to dr. peter mortola, a professor at lewis and clark university.
and it creates a precedent for them when they grow up. >> we know men are not accessing
mental health in the way that females are. >> deb: he's created a book to address the
emotional development particularly with boys system rolls we all have a bear inside. sometimes
the bear will act out in ways that hurt others. piet woulding someone at preschool, hitting our
sibling, or usaing vicious words to attack someone on social media. >> deb: he says the book
49

guides kids to know how to use the inner bear to help them, and validate their feelings. but one
of the chal sense to get some boys to open up and talk, according to author of "how to raise a
boy" dr. michael richert. >> boys are not going to necessarily open you with open arms and say
mom, how glad I am that you are waking me up this morning, or that you're driving me to
school. >> deb: but that doesn't mean they aren't able to open up. >> in fact, it's the opposite.
not only is that boy reachable by someone, that's what our research showed, but he's in great
need of being reached. >> deb: debora knapp, katu news. >> wesleigh: the doctor is hosting an
event today called "promoting healthy masculinities" at catlin gable school in southwest
portland. we have more information on our website, katu.com. >>> experts say most mental
health crises are temporary and will pass. if you need to talk, there are always people standing
by at the national lifeline. their number is 1-800-273-talk. you can also text "home" to 741741.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 11 • 9:21 PM

B_MAY_OREG_46

welcome back. a retired farmer spending the next six months on the road. not in a car not a
truck but on a john deere tractor. all to raise awareness for veterans and first responders. single
national correspondent kristine frazao was there as he started his journey. >> a new mission
now officially underway. from a farmer i've been is hitting the back roads of america for a
purpose. to raise awareness about issues facing military veterans. and first responders. >> it hit
me as I was getting older I start think about my freedom and I thought I never did my part I was
never in the military I want to give back somehow. >> is giving back by traveling the country and
is reimagined john deere tractor. which on flat roads, gets up to about 50 miles an hour. so he'll
be taking the scenic route. >> it's a back road and people coming out and running out and
clapping and waving and bringing memories from when they were young. >> is route this time
around will be heading west and when he gets to montana hillhead south and down into
florida. but this is actually the third truck for ivan and his tractor. is only put 12,000 400 miles
on it. so far is raise more than $200,000. hoping to bring more attention to issues like
posttraumatic stress syndrome and the suicide rate of current and former service members.
estimate by the department of veteran’s affairs to be about 20 each and every day. he says on
his previous trips his presence seems to bring comfort to those who see them passing by. >> so
this tractor won't stop. forward marching up the hills and across the fields of America. I’m
kristine frazao reporting.
KHQ (NBC)
US May 11 • 11:11 PM

B_MAY_WASH_40

of shianne soles.. a 19-year-old central valley graduate and active duty service member...that
was killed in an apparent double murder suicide last weekend in virginia. shianne's family says
she was a light to all that knew her.. and was taken far too soon stephanie stevenson is live in
coeur d'alene where the family is holding a candlelight vigil at shianne's favorite
spot...stephanie? live: I spoke with shianne's family this afternoon... they said shianne had too
many friends to count.. and looking around, they weren't wrong.. they said she would've loved
seeing all her favorite people in the same spot... even though the family wasn't ready to say
50

goodbye 49:47 "shianne was fearless, she wasn't afraid of anything" shianne soles mother...
shawna eagle... said she wasn't sad when her daughter flew across the country to join the
navy... she was proud 50:00 "she wanted to see the world. she had big dreams, big goals. lots of
them, because one wasn't enough" soles' best friend, logan brophy said shianne was there for
anyone, anytime they needed her 56:24 "there was never a moment we weren't together "
when soles came home for the holidays... her family said they forgot how much of a firework
she was 51:18 " I remember when she came home for christmas after two days I was like it's so
noisy here. her presence was just so big, but the silence when she was gone was so much
bigger" last saturday... police say soles and her friend went off base from camp lejeune to 7eleven... when a man soles knew... took the two by surprise... and shot soles, her friend, and
then himself "we're all trying to hold onto each other right now" soles' step father, rusty eagle,
said shianne's mother and father, brian, have been so strong this week.. and the support from
friends has been overwhelming... the family says they have no idea how long the service
tonight will last, but they said if it's not chaos, shianne wouldn't have liked it.. I’m ss khq
stephanie thank you. local police in portsmouth say they are still investigating the motive
behind the shooting. the navy says they have mental health professionals and chaplains at the
effected bases for counseling we'll be right back. we have brand new video into our newsroom
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 11 • 8:50 AM

B_MAY_WASH_41

Jeff Ashton is the ABC News' chief medic correspondent couple of years ago she lost her former
husband when he took his own life after Dr Ashton discussed her experience in her new life
after suicide she did on good morning America this week with it ceased george Stephanopolous
hopes of helping others heal glad to talk about this again I called it painful experience but one
thing you learn is sharing that pain is part of a healing process is well it definitely has been for
us george you know when suicide hair family you we felt like we were the only ones going
through it which I've now learned is really common reaction but it's estimated that for every
death by suicide in this country that 135 people directly affected if you crunch the numbers
that's over 6 million people a year so for us knowing that one was really good products and for
so many survivors so hard to share their stories it Yeah because we feel like we have this scarlet
letter you know this S for suicide in and even 2019 it's not talked about its whispered about her
there's so much blame and shame and anger and guilt and I think that the first thing we realize
is talking about it asking for help is the most important thing for me as a doctor it's much easier
for me to be the one giving helped them asking for exit asking is so difficult for all of us who
may know someone who's a survivor what's the best way to reach out up I he no I think so
many people it's such a horrible situation for anyone to bn people on what to say or what to do
just have to be there for you literally don't you want to say anything you just have to sit with
someone or look at them more hold their hand or send attacks saying I’m thinking about you
and that is so helpful every time you come on talk about this we see huge reaction on social
media what he learned about that and about from the whole experience you want a great dog
Oh my God I mean the social media response has been massive we've learned so much to so
many people are in this club that no one wants to be and I think some of the things we've
learned because we're lucky to have had a lot of therapy is if you want to shield you have to
51

feel and if you fight that you know my therapist has a line that if you resist it will persist and so
you just have to go through it and you know we learned that the saying I forget where it comes
from but no one gets through life without payment but suffering is optional and this concept of
stuff Post traumatic growth which I had never heard before it was actually developed by two
psychologists in the 90s And it describes how people's lives can actually change and our
understanding of ourselves these so much deeper after a major tragedy and I definitely have
experienced that I know my kids have a different appreciation for life as they say death is the
ultimate educator and I don't people come together Yeah absolutely and there are days that I
feel like I’m now the strongest person ever and there are days I feel like the weakest person
ever and there they're also days I feel like I'll never be the same but I think we're trying to look
at it did the incredible inspiring stories of the people I interviewed for the book which shared
with me lessons they've learned and openness dialogue because if we don't talk about it we
happen people have to know there are resources out there for them and ask for help it's critical
to anderson thanks very much like pieces side is that and proceeds from the book will be
donated to suicide prevention organizations and robs honor to find out more about it on our
website and fewer struggling thoughts of suicide worried about a friend or loved one help is
available called the National suicide Prevention lifeline.
News Radio KEX
May 11 • 8:45 AM

B_MAY_OREG_47

Chief medical correspondent couple of years ago she lost her former husband when he took his
own life dr ashton discusses her experience in her new book life after suicide she did on good
morning America this week with abc george stephanopolous hopes of helping others he'll
pledge to talk about things they can I call it a painful experience but one thing you learn is
sharing the pain is part of the healing process well it definitely has been pressed him you know
when suicide head our family you we felt like we were the only ones going through it which i've
now learned is really common reaction but it's estimated that for every death by suicide in this
country that 135 people directly affected if you crunch the numbers that's over 6 million people
a year so for us knowing that one is really new products and for so many survivors so hard to
share their stories it yeah because we feel like we have this scarlet letter you know this s for
suicide and even 2019 it's not talked about its whispered about her there's so much blame and
shame and anger and guilt and I think that the first thing we realized is talking about it asking
for help is the most important thing for me as a doctor it's so much easier for me to be the one
giving helped them asking for asking is so difficult so for all of us who may know someone who's
a survivor what's the best way to reach up I hate you know I think so many people it's such a
horrible situation for anyone to be in them people know what to say or what to do they just
have to be there for you literally don't want to say anything you just have to sit with someone
or look at them more hold their hand or send attacks saying I’m thinking about you and that is
so helpful every time you come on talk about this you see huge reaction on social media what
have you learned about that and about from the whole experience you want to breed dog my
god I mean the social media response has been massive we've learned so much that so many
people are in this club that no one wants to be in I think some of the things we've learned and
because force is lucky to have had a lot of therapy is if you want to shield you have to steal and
52

if you fight that know my therapist has a line that if you resist it will persist and so you just have
to go through it and you know we learned that the saying I forget where it comes from but no
one gets through life without payment but suffering is optional and this concept is of posttraumatic growth which I had never heard before it was actually developed by two
psychologists in the 90s and it describes how people's lives can actually change and our
understanding of ourselves east so much deeper after a major tragedy and I definitely have
experienced that I know my kids have a different appreciation for life as they say death is the
ultimate educator.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 13 • 5:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_48

press reports in germany suggested the deaths of 3 people shot with cross those in a very in a
hotel room on saturday may have been involved in a suicide pact details have been imagined
before a postmortem examination today as you're preaching all at a time mike tompkins with
the 3 victims were found at lunchtime on saturday by chambermaid in the hotel in passau she
thought someone had left a life-size dolls on the floor it turned out to be the body of a 30 yearold woman from central germany with a crossbow bolts in the chest on the bed have been
handling a beaded man in his 50s and a woman in her 50s but from western germany he bowls
to the head and chest stuff said they checked in on friday evening goes straight to the rim
they've never seen alive again.
KMTR (NBC)
May 13 • 8:10 AM

B_MAY_OREG_49

vulnerable to bullying that's according to a new study from Rutgers university./// it shows girls
abuied more often ... and are more likely to consider, plan or attempt + suicide+ boys.///
researchers say bullying among boys is usually physical ... so it's more likely to be stopped.///
but girls tend to use more subtle tactics -- like exclusion or spreading rumors ... which can go on
a long time without anyone knowing./// a separate study from the university of buffalo ... finds
teens bullied online are more likely to have trouble sleeping./// survey of over 800
adolescents./// researchers also found poor sleep ... increased the risk of depression./// nearly
15-percent of high school students report being cyberbullied at least once./
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 13 • 3:13 PM

B_MAY_OREG_50

health news now, teenage girls are more vulnerable to bullying than boys. that is according to a
new study from Rutgers university which shows girls are bullied more often and are more likely
to consider, plan, or attempt suicide than boys. researchers say that bullying among boys is
usually physical, so it is more likely to be stopped. >>> a new study is out on the impact that
bullying has on sleep. researchers found that teenagers bullied online are more likely to have
trouble getting to bed also lack of sleep increases the risk of depression. the findings are based

53

on a survey of over 800 adolescents and nearly 15% of high school students reported being
cyber bullied at least once.
KDRV (ABC)
May 13 • 7:21 PM

B_MAY_OREG_51

mental health is an important part of everyday happiness. in today's health alert... trevor ault
shows us what to keep in mind to keep our mind in tip-top shape. to check your own mental
health -- a simple question: are things going with you? are you generally coping, feeling interest
in your life and activities, able to get through the day? here are some early warning signs that
might signal a problem. feeling "indifferent" or "numb" to things that used to matter to you,
even to your family and friends, feeling hopeless sleeping too much or not enough, and having
less energy than normal smoking, drinking alcohol or taking drugs to make yourself feel better
experiencing severe mood swings or aggression being unable to perform daily tasks or meet
deadlines at work and this one's a medical emergency: thinking of harming yourself or others
those are all reasons to look for help. for all of us, a little mental checkup and self-therapy can
start you on the way: every single day, take just a few minutes are lots of mindfulness apps
help. if you recognize yourself in these symptoms, it's a wake-up health alert: mental health-tag
if you're in a mental health emergency...you can call the national suicide prevention lifeline at
any time. you can see that number on your screen right now. that's 1-800-273-8255.
News Radio KEX
May 13 • 8:22 PM

B_MAY_OREG_52

First why say about something that happened earlier today because it relates to something I
want to mention about today show an individual whose name I’m not one to say wrote and said
I have a friend who is very worried about her brother he told her yesterday on mother's day
that he has thought of killing himself he's a veteran who fought in iraq in 2009 and it's clear he
suffered from ptsd in fact two of her brothers for mara that same year and they both have ptsd
but one is in far worse shape than the other he's 30 years old with wife and two small kids by
the way that is that typical profile i've got to go skip I hope anyone she's scared something bad
is going to happen reminder that we lose 22 veterans per day and to suicide she said he's
getting no help from the v.a. that's also took and doesn't know what else to do she wants to
help them find a doctor he can say who can actually help the I’m melissa every show I know you
have a heart for veterans in this situation I’m reaching out to see if you have any ideas are
advised where she can get help put and I did and that brings me to my next point 6 years ago
today I spent the afternoon I can hope have hope the residential treatment facility a home for
counseling center workout room you name it meeting place for veterans with ptsd the typical
veteran is on site for 6 months in treatment program they don't pay a penny for the
government doesn't happen before it is all donor driven and our listeners have spent a small
fortune keeping the lights on and play in paying for programming for this the organization it
was 6 years ago today that have visited for the first time and since that time untold numbers of
veterans I walk through those doors there's almost a 100 at a time they're there in residence
the facilities have continued to grow opportunities for veterans the me options the things they
54

can do the quality of the food of opportunities to get jobs afterwards you name it all because
our listeners have responded in those 6 years was 6 years ago today friday was the ten-year
anniversary of the organization starting I found him 4 years into it and I told the story this
morning it's true they ask me to be here national spokesman which is kind of funny 6 years ago
because it was just one location in his now the chapters all over the country organization has
grown it's an incredible or position with an incredible chartered incredible mission doing
incredible things for our combat war veterans I’m very proud of it and follow up to the email
was that that young lady sent an e-mail thank you thank you thank you bobby milton with ptsd
foundation called me I really appreciate your help I got to him and that veteran so there you go
if you know that around in crisis in touch good things about to happen base 7.7 on 7 ptsd so
you understand what happens a combat veteran who themselves suffered from ptsd and came
to the program will answer the call was free that person will get them through the immediate
crisis because often times a person doesn't call they don't bend to need to call until they're in a
situation where they're suicidal and I mean really early and suicidal they're in a bad place
mentally and maybe even physically in the immediate response for that veteran to get them
out of the crisis many times they go out to the veteran who put him into trouble driving them
and start helping him rebuild his life start helping him deal with a nightmare start helping him
deal with the anger start helping him deal with the sense of frustration why it asked about and
my body's didn't start helping him deal coke with the loss of his friends in war many of these
veterans come home from war and the adrenaline rush of war is is and is drugged and life here
doesn't make sense anymore the only thing that made sense was helping your body's in more
these other combat veterans have been will help them 22 veterans a day we listen to us one
too many 22 a day I like you were an epidemic but I’m not sure what else to use it I thank you
all for your support.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 13 • 8:36 PM

B_MAY_WASH_42

South Carolina authorities are accusing to prison inmates of an alleged sex starship the scheme
and in the suicide cbs news correspondent jim crow through the reports investigators say two
inmates at the lee correctional institution used contraband cellphones to target army veteran
jerry johns greenville south carolina police chief ken miller at the time of his death jared who
was the victim of blackmail scheme the 24 year-old veteran shot and killed himself after he was
sent sexually explicit photos through a dating app by people who then claim the girl was
underage and demanded money for not reporting him inmates at the same prison were caught
last week live streaming on Facebook from contraband cellphones.
KMTR (NBC)
May 13 • 8:42 PM

B_MAY_OREG_53

suicide is the second leading cause of death among young people between the age of 10 years
old and 24 years old. in lane county the suicide rate is 50% greater than the national average. is
one is now an advocate for suicide awareness and prevention encouraging parents to have a
real conversation with the kids about stress, anxiety, and depression. >> the more of those
55

conversation we can have at the beginning and teaching kids skills to cope with these things are
how to reach out when they are like the edge and they don't know what to do, the sooner they
do that, the more options we have. >> to learn more about the facts and warning signs of
suicide, you can visit prevention lane.com, and coming up on a special report on nbc16 news at
6:30p.m., christelle koumoue takes a deeper look at what programs schools offer. >>> a study
from the veity of buffalo found out that teenagers bullied online are more likely to have trouble
sleeping. is based on a survey of 800 adolescents and researchers found that poor sleep let to
an increase in the risk of depression and nearly 50% of high school students reported being
cyber bullied at least once. >>> according to a new study from rutgers university teenage girls
are more mobile to be bullied than boys. they are more likely to consider or plan suicide than
boys. the living among boys are -- the bullying among boys is physical more likely to be stopped.
KMTR (NBC)
May 13 • 9:28 PM

B_MAY_OREG_54

suicide is the second leading cause of death between young people between 10 and 24. good
evening and thank you for joining us tonight for nbc 16 news. the suicide rate is 50% greater in
lane county than the national average. >> this is her last christmas with us. this was indeeds and
she took her life in april. >> reporter: she was 16-year- old in 1997. >> on the outside everything
looked good. she was doing good in school. she was an athlete. an only child. we-- we were
totally taken aback. >> reporter: she is now an advocate for suicide prevention and awareness
and urging parents to have conversations with kids about stress, anxiety and depression. >> the
more we talk about mental health and remove the stigma, it is okay if someone is sick to go to
the doctor. it is no different. your mind is sick, your mind has an issue and it is okay to go to the
doctor. >> reporter: she is urging schools to join the conversation. >> we have a smoking
prevention and a drug prevention and drinking and driving prevention and the mental health of
that needs to be part of that. >> reporter: inter the hoots program providing healthcare clinics
to nine different high schools in the eugene and springfield area. >> different medical gear, so
we could provide first aid and referrals. >> reporter: while more schools are starting the
conversation about mental health, the school district is taking it a step further. >> we are in the
wellness center at the middle school. >> reporter: safe place inside the school where students
can focus on emotional and mental well-being. >> we have a scale that we use with our
students. if they are riding high or really upset, what can I do to support them. >> reporter: the
wellness center has four rooms, including a dark space, art supplies, sand tray and even a
punching bag. >> this has opened up the conversation. has really helped students, have those
conversations. >> reporter: the school district near Portland is one of the first in Oregontaking
this approach, an approach that makes sense. >> you don't want to get in a situation like I was
where my daughter didn't feel like she had options. >> now a learn more about the facts and
warning signs of suicide you can visit prevention lane.com.
tonight a king 5 investigation has led to five powerful u.s. senators demanding immediate
action from the veterans administration. >> last week we revealed how the va botched the
rollout of a mandatory program aimed at

56

reducing the number of veterans dying from suicide. taylor reports on what the senators say
need to happen now. >> reporter: these u.s. senators came out swinging today. washington's
patty murray and maria cantwell were among the five who sent this letter to the man in charge
at the va saying they are deeply frustrated thousands of at-risk veterans aren't getting the
mental health care they are owed. >> this is a ray of sunshine and makes me feel like maybe I’m
not crazy. >> reporter: brian is one of thousands of vets with an other than honorable discharge
who ould have gotten mental health care but hnlt that means you were kicked out for breaking
the rules. in brooirn's case, he took a narcotic that wasn't allowed. >> why did you take that
medication? >> I don't know. it seems surreal. >> reporter: the law expanded access to va
mental health treatment for this other than honorable group. they have a high risk of suicide.
here's how the va fell down on
the job. they were supposed to notify eligible veterans by a deadline. they missed it. and the
agency served less than 1% of the people who qualified for help in the last two years. when
they did get around to doing something, they sent out one letter to nearly 500,000 vet this is
year. you never were notified that you qualify for mental health care? >> no, I was never
notified. >> reporter: senators wrote the va must do more than the bare minimum and ordered
the department to conduct a public outreach campaign to educate veterans and the public
about the new law. >> I think this will absolutely serve lives because if a veteran has been
kicked out with an other than honorable discharge knows they have access to mental health
care, that maybe be the only thing in their life that is going right for them. >> reporter: we saw
firsthand how some verts who reached out for help were given confusing and inaccurate
information.
that's what happened when we went with brian in april to the american lake mid cal center at
the va. he went in asking for mental health treatment for his ptsd. so in the span of one
conversation you had been told -- >> three different things. on one issue. only mental health
care and I still got three different answers. >> reporter: in response to brian's experience and
veterans like him, the senators ordered the va to retrain staff and conduct routine inspections
of intake personnel to make sure they're giving veterans the right info so they don't walk away
from help for good. now, for weeks national va officials have denied by interview requests and
refused to answer my questions. mark and greg, they told me today they plan to respond to the
senators. that's all we know. >> senators here are going to be making some demand or have to
the va. the va is going to respond. if the senators don't like what the va has to say, do they have
any recourse? >> congress has some options.
it can choose to withhold funding, pass additional legislation to mandate the va to do additional
outreach to reach these veterans. it will be up to congress to decide what to do next after they
get the response. >> certainly an epidemic of vets who need help, right? >> absolutely. suicide
is a real problem with veterans

57

KIRO-AM (Radio)
May 14 • 5:10 PM

B_MAY_WASH_43

I told you just yesterday about yet another high school that has gotten rid of the valedictorian
designation the stated reason was that it put too much pressure on the kid’s parents would all
want their kid demand the their kid believe valedictorian they wouldn't care and my kids got to
borrow have the kids going 4 0 with all A.P. classes a dime other my kid deserves it and more
and more schools it was many years ago Garfield high school had was 37 47 valedictorians
which is insane if you give valid Victorian to a bunch of kids the honor means nothing means
nothing valedictorian is he top but number one kid in the graduating class but that's what we
need more water everything jail so I heard from of these superintendent of that school district
in ohio he was on Fox bills Jonathan Cooper Mason and I’m telling you know everything he said
was a about why they got rid of valedictorians is off 180 degrees wrong from reality and it's an
example of why so many things are screwed up right now so here is the superintendent
explaining why they can't award Harden the bast to the vast but there are several suicides in
the past 7 years I got your attention always is how is that for the reason for this job that's right
so there's a healthy competition unhealthy competition and as our community came together
and start to look at some of the unhealthy pattern the rising anxiety and depression suicidal
ideation we know that suicide is the second leading cause of death in use today across America
that interview so they say that because there have been suicides rising suicides more anxiety
than ever before we right now have been ill 20 years 25 years into the coddling of kids and that
has created the most anxiety the greatest inability to cope with the real world telling kids
having to strive to exceed and a kid and telling the ones who don't get that designation that the
shirt he was worth it and home go back to what I said probably a million times on this show and
I know you said it a million times in in locker rooms for my teams the person kids who go
through life like many many many adults every day is the same yesterdays like to day to which
is like tomorrow and life has even keel built great ties no great love those there's any low-post
mom and dad will protect me from that but there's that can be any great highs either I was
listening to somebody got to remember I wish I can remember Lou what's but it he said I did it I
just heard this couple days not somebody said when you get that butterfly hit in the stomach
feeling that almost every great moment in his life as for Loaded one of those butterflies in his
stomach moments not all great but certainly the most memorable and ice old subscribe to that
that's right it crushing loved member though those first loves and remember whenever it came
to an end and you just you went to sleep but it was the last thing you thought about it your
bonus league you wake up in the morning there was the first thing it hurts it just hurt that love
lost but boy I tell you what in those moments of intense emotion you know all your live and so
even if it does you know devastating defeat when he hit those soaring victory it's it makes them
all this later so anyway what we are doing now areas we just are telling kids shouldn't have any
Heiser and nobody should be the best you should strive for that that's too stressful that's a
bunch of nonsense the reason the anxiety level is highs today that's the reason that the inability
to cope is as great as it has is because odds of a quarter-century of deciding the competition is
bad competitions evil striving to be the best is worth less and it's gotten to us to a destination
in 2019 or politicians consigned odd the some called the Green new deal the said we should get
58

a living wage to involves a and willing to work or quit trying by succeed oil sheen get so
annoyed listening to the superintendent to death in his today across America and so we start to
look at what we can do a school leaders to make changes so we looked at a lot of things it
wasn't just the val sao conversation we looked at implementing any appear appears the else
about this it's educators for the auditorium salute to decide Prevention program called hopes
quad this year we're looking at investing and mental wellness court nation care for families
because there is unhealthy competition that we saw and as adults in our district as community
members coming together over 50 community conversations we heard our community saying
to us please do something about the unhealthy competition Tapit in Mason city schools it's an
unhealthy competition for kids to strive to be the academic best in the high school it makes no
sense it is a failed we've been doing that's and it he separate himself the suicide rate is the
highest it's ever been we look around our city but the people are just completely dropped out
society becomes drug vacancy is their lifestyle choice so I just tell you that this is the wrong
path and get rid of it of warding Axel Witsel the my White your high school sports them
because there are a lot of there's a lot of unhealthy competition there as the superintendent
would put it now it's about teaching kids choose set goals to achieve to their highest potential
as individuals and as a team and that's pushing to the point where you get more and are able to
give more than you even dreamed possible this notion that competition is unhealthy and it's
not just in our high schools this is a national political dialogue great now well we should just
take from the chambers and give it to being the most places unbelievable it's depressing it's
surprising because I am positive that all there is a big boy arrived and then it my world view on
this is accurate but they can go on and keep Teran things down I gas I still like to rally all of us
coming together against this nonsense again without the mayor praised Lew there was a crime
we told you about last week and talk to the victim of what happened here in Seattle.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 14 • 7:54 AM

B_MAY_WASH_44

it's your world trade it for ex training involves significant risk of violence there was a report out
recently showing increasing worker pay either through higher minimum wages or more tax
credits can decrease the risk of suicide it's the latest in a growing body of research into how
personal economics affect suicide and mental health joining me with more is marketplaces
senior economics contributor chris farrell good morning good morning chris what sort of
connection there between someone's overall income and their overall health he is there's been
this growing body is carley resurgence has looked into that question the evidence is really
convincing with long-term low-income jobs he has a bad effect on your health and a lot of this
has to do with not being able to get access to good health insurance is typically most was get
our health insurance through our employers and the mental side maybe ne long-term impact of
unemployment and just a lack of economic opportunity a lot of this research centers on suicide
what does research told us about the link between someone's economic well-being and their
likelihood to die by suicide yes so be very clear what the reasons behind suicide really complex
difficult to untangle but scholars have been looking into this you for his expression the midlife
deaths of despair as haunting phrase this people in their prime working years and they're dying
from alcohol and drug abuse and suicide and there was a study but his 4 continents and they
59

were looking into the deaths of despair and wondering what's the impact of higher minimum
wage or higher earned income tax credit or vi tc on these des insist despair in what they found
is that when it comes to suicide among those with a high school education or less a higher
minimum wage or higher earned-income tax credit so your after-tax income goes up has a
significant impact I’m suicide rates and do any of these studies that you have to look at point
towards policy's that might help combat some of us so I think a couple things one a higher
minimum wage higher earned income tax credit that will help so in other words is this
movement to raise wages among low income workers he has a huge public health component
the other aspect is implement full employment policy I mean that's a word we haven't heard
her expression and heard for a long period of time but boys only now starting to reach down
into two parts of our economy that have been left behind so let this kind of neat or at
marketplaces senior economics contributor chris farrell thank you chris thanks a lot.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 14 • 2:15 PM

B_MAY_WASH_45

The widow of Rockstar Chester Bennington is opening up after his suicide more from NBC'S
Jason Nathan said can heart from Manchester meant to die by suicide in July 2017 just how it is
okay it is life to Linda talking to Dr Jennifer Ash burn podcast life after Suicide to the saying the
warning signs just went there news site she had no taste the food better he give them a hug
harder he wanted to use this in a really good place to Linda says it's been tough for her their
kids to this day she still can't listen to his music a jump from the backseat chains station comes
about carpet how often it's just too painful for she started a Foundation to help others dealing
with depression called 3 20 changes direction for life after suicide podcast episode is out today.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 14 • 3:13 PM

B_MAY_OREG_55

if you're just tuning in here we talk right now is steven she's editor of the Portland business
Journal your health care reporter was hayes had a really interesting follow up to some of her
reporting that was part of a big state like partnership on suicide that he took part in as well this
article she did was based on a story a couple in Marion County it got in touch with her wendy
and larry gordon can you tell us why they reached out to her he said they Re lee said Elizabeth
Hazan healthcare reporter as part of the state wide report didn't project wrote a blog this kind
of teeing up said all of these media partners were going to be refocusing stories on suicide as a
means of kind of raising awareness that it is a public health crisis and also talking about
Prevention efforts and help that is out there for individual she wrote a blog about that that
prompted an email from larry gordon a ballot you know a story that was just really compelling
and grit and really moving that he and his wife Wendy were actually considering taking their
own lives because of the reason that is something else that we've all been reporting on over
the years and that is opioids and the CDC a couple years ago put out new prescribing guidelines
for opioids now the idea behind that was obviously to address the opioid crisis on and abuse of
those opioids now when they had been on opioids prescribed taking them as prescribed for
almost two decades to manage really severe pain she was being weaned off of them it was
60

causing the you know just terrible pain for her and anxiety for the whole family what ended up
saving their lives changing their minds and so it didn't go through with with that plan Yeah so
they say we can just get a little bit of background so you know when the hat as spinal to where
she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis this was about 30 years ago that led to some failed
neck surgeries that's where all of this kind of came up her doctor prescribed methadone for her
and she was taking at a pretty high dose if you look at guidelines for nearly 20 years to really
manage this this chronic pain when she was forced off of those she lost 40% of her body weight
her pain returned to the level that it had banned she couldn't sleep she was on the floor you
know crying that that was basically her life and so they were just days away from it they saw
their only way out as they put it to elizabeth was to take their own lives they just could really
could not take it anymore so just a few days before that happened they found relief through
the Oregoncame action group and that is a group that is really focused on these kind of as larry
put he felt he and whitney were collateral damage of these prescribing guidelines so through
that group they were able to find a position that could get her back on the method was willing
to do that and so she's now back to a level her pain is manageable she's still not back physically
where she was but much better.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 15 • 5:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_56

lawmakers are calling for an investigation into the death of the teenager who allegedly killed
himself after conducting an online poll asking if she should live or die see have two reports
distrust 16 year-old girl created a poll on instagram title really important help me choose D or
now meaning death or life approximately 17% of the teenagers social media followers appear
to vote for her to take her own life she was found dead a few hours later summoned Malaysia
are calling for the people who voted in the polls to face criminal charges Frank Her aging the
girl's apparent suicide others one Instagram to face consequences in February it bans graphic
content relating to self-harm from its platform the critics say it isn't doing enough to monitor
what appears on the site.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 15 • 6:20 AM

B_MAY_OREG_57

there is a sense of shock and Malaysia today on the death of a teenage girl who reportedly took
heroin life after posting a poll on instagram asking people if she should live or die country's
youth Minister has cooled for investigation on asia Pacific editor see hudson is here and tell us
about the second stances surrounding steph will this case involves age is 16 year-old girl living
in eastern Malaysia who had apparently been suffering from depression and quite troubling
family issues she posted on to Facebook saying I’m very tired I just want to end this she then
posted this poll on Facebook a story on instagram was tied up really important help me choose
D /L death or life it D District police chief says that around 69% of people then had to 4 deaths
and a few hours later the girl was found Dead it's believed she took her own life and what's
been the reaction to this reaction as you said really shock it is something Malaysia are saying
look we need to go after the people who voted in this poll we need to prosecute them there is
61

a law on the books in Malaysia that says that those to abet the suicide of minors could face up
to 20 years in prison others like the official use cited the youth Minister calling for for greater
mental health resources they're saying look we need to start a national conversation around
suicide because really hasn't been much discussion militias so far so far most of the talk around
social media regulation has focused on fake news and to remove fake news or any threat to
remove extremist content from social media platforms but this is a country of 32 million people
around 12 million active users on instagram there on 4 hours a day and so there really is now I
called have a greater look at that.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 15 • 12:40 PM

B_MAY_OREG_58

teen suicide is on the rise. most teens that are thinking about suicide, don't mean to commit
suicide, but they feel that is a way to end the pain and suffering. it's our job to try to diagnose,
try to help them. if your child has a baseline behavior, and there is changes in that behavior,
that are a significant, or you have a gut feeling that something is wrong, I advice families to seek
help, and the signs and symptoms of depression include changes in eating habits. they have
difficulty sleeping. they have difficulty with concentration, decision making, or extreme
irritability. teenage depression is on the rise, but we can work together to solve this problem.
one is having conversations with our teens that involve open-ended questions and try not to be
judgmental. number 2 is supervise the use of social media, to make sure it is not excessive, and
number 3 I think it's critical that kids sleep enough. we recommend between eight to nine
hours a night. we're trying to minimize the stigma of mental health illness in teens, but the only
way to do it is to talk about it. we have to talk about it all the time with our kids. please start a
conversation with your teen today.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 15 • 4:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_46

A british reality-show canceled after the apparent suicide of former guest good evening hi cb
has pulled the jeremy kyle program all flatter that shows britain's rival to jerry springer ask you
to buy a ticket so he must get to go for the conference station all sill lating and popular it's been
canceled because gas died a week after a taping of what's reported to have been a suicide the
man had failed a lie detector test was portrayed as unfaithful to his wife michelle had yet to
where the network tv says it's not going to review its of a reality based programs.
KONG-SEA
May 15 • 4:33 PM

B_MAY_WASH_47

honor flights, they're designed to take aging veterans to washington dc to pay tribute to their
fallen comrades at the capitol's war memorials. but there are often long waits. sebastian
robertson has the story. >> raymond miller did not dodge the draft. the then 19-year-old
enlisted to fight for his country in vietnam. >> we have an obligation to support them. that they
were going and they were making the ultimate sacrifice. >> miller didn't see combat, but his
62

soldiers did. friday morning, miller alongside vets from the gulf war, iraq, and afghanistan, will
travel to dc to honor the men and women lost to war. unlike other honor flights, this one was
put together in just six months. leo pots of west seattle is the man behind this mission. > g g a
few years for a spot in an honor flight isn't an option for some of the older veterans. firsthand
with his own father. something potts experienced at 89 years old. his dad visited dc for the first
time since world war ii. >> you know, we were able to do that. and it made all the difference in
the world to him. >> honor flights have become increasingly popular. but with long wait times
the former army man decided to cut through the red tape himself. >> I do this because I want
to give back. >> donations were collected from around the city. many from members at this vfw
post in ballard. potts was able to raise enough money for ten vets to fly to dc this weekend.
vets who like him were adjusting to life after war. >> I have thought of committing suicide
myself. and -- because I didn't have anyone. when I came back from iraq, I was all alone and it
was miserable. and I don't want that for other vets. >> this trip is about vets helping other vets.
>> knowing that there was someone there that actually cared about me. and that's what
veterans need. >> a chance for raymond miller of marysville to remember the friend he lost. >>
every time I go by the wall or see the wall or somebody mentions something about the vietnam
memorials, I realize he's one of those names on that wall. >> a name he's proud to recognize all
these years later. in seattle, sebastian robertson, king 5 news.
KREM (CBS)
May 15 • 8:40 PM

B_MAY_WASH_48

officials in alabama have until next week to improve safety throughout the state's troubled
prison system. the justice department demanded an overhaul after an investigation found
conditions "unconstitutional," violating the eighth amendment protections against cruel and
unusual punishment. jeff pegues takes us inside. >> reporter: these are just some of the 2,600
photographs taken inside alabama's prisons, images of horrid conditions, inmates who were
killed by another prisoner's hand, or their own, like betty head's son, who died after trying to
hang himself in this decrepit cellblock. >> the system killed my only son. >> reporter: 34-yearold billy thornton was just months away from finishing a six-year sentence for statutory rape.
inmates told her that her mentally ill son would cry for help and be routinely ignored. he would
call for help--? >> they would ignore him, yes, sir. >> reporter: they would ignore him. alabama
prisons have the highest suicide rate in the country, three times the national average, 15 in 15
months. >> things are really out of control and need to be reigned in. >> reporter: maria morris
of the southern poverty law center says mentally ill inmates, even those on suicide watch, are
held in solitary confinement, where they have little contact with officers. >> what that basically
means is they are warehousing them. they're sticking them into segregation units and letting
them suffer, in some cases letting them commit suicide. >> reporter: but it's not just mentally ill
who are suffering. a two-year justice department investigation found conditions throughout the
entire alabama prison system are "unconstitutional," and that an "excessive amount of
violence, sexual assault and prisoner deaths happen on a regular basis," making the state's
prisons a deadly place to work as well. >> I am thankful that I walked out alive. >> reporter: this
worker, who asked to be fully disguised for fear of being fired for speaking out, told us the
situation is dire. >> we need more mental health workers. we need more officers. more people
63

are going to die. >> reporter: state prison officials say there are approximately 1,400 officers,
about half of what's needed to oversee a prison population of 16,000. >> this has been a
problem that's been 30 years in the making. >> reporter: the commissioner of the alabama
department of corrections, jeff dunn, says $125 million has already been appropriated to raise
staffing levels, curb violence, and increase attention tmates' mental health. why should people
think that things are going to change? >> in the last couple of years, we've seen, first of all, the
coming together of several partners who are committed to fixing this. >> reporter: the d.o.j.
report said that the state is "deliberately indifferent to the risks that prisoners face." those
words must sting. >> they do, and we-- we've embraced that challenge. >> reporter: the
southern poverty law center has sued the alabama department of corrections. a federal judge is
forcing the prison system to make changes. and, like the courts, the d.o.j. has issued an
ultimatum of its own: change or be forced to comply. too late to save billy thornton. >> why did
you all kill junior? why did you? >> reporter: jeff pegues, cbs news, birmingham.
AM 860
May 15 • 8:48 PM

B_MAY_OREG_59

i want to address one thing we always hear what about the case of rape incest in life that
matter other was is that day love light just like the word fetuses lie on big but at one address
these this life I am sorry this rape incest and life of the mother and the reason these are the
numbers everyone life of the mother is almost never the most leftist poll abortion doctors you
confine will say it's a bit early like one in the 21st century it's not an issue is really not an issue
and the reason is because you're really talking about adding a medical procedure to another
medical complication right and so you're only if you're only increasing medical problems for
mother so put that one aside for one moment us who want to talk about living in no I don't
base policy on extreme cases great point that's a great point another great point on it but that
did them in the rape and incest the to really want to talk to have seen a lot of this my counsel
countless young girls and other older women were raped or who are that you have to have
endured horrible tragic sometimes violent incest cases and I can tell you that they've been
traumatized the very last thing they need is to was traumatized again it's not just the trauma of
something that they're really not mentally prepared to make a decision about independents the
grieving process that sometimes goes on for years or decades a lifetime look at the suicide rates
of women who've been raped or have had incest committed against them and then they've
reported the suicide rates are more than 5 times higher one of the women who are well ahead
in their child because nobody because they think it sounds anti-woman but with anti-woman is
marketing a procedure that kill women and it doesn't hide it well it to women that many times
most of the time they regret for the rest of their lives so I this is stunning statistic if you wish to
do there's two main thing and then you don't power o troma but home troma because huge
could act chile help cool polls the death of that victim already victim precise have you had two
victims and you you'd you could have none yeah you have both civil and wow they don't want
to look at medical evidence ever west for its they do the same thing on that I need a
transgender thing someone actually goes through with it with the sexual transition the suicide
rates are off the chart a you learn this study is produced by leftist university these aren't press
she allowed and dr gorka making these upright right there thank you for coming.
64

KPLU-FM (Radio)
May 15 • 9:10 PM

B_MAY_OREG_60

yesterday we heard part one today we have part two of my interview with howard stern the
occasion for the interviews the publication of his new book collecting some of his favorite
interviews from his serious xm radio show the book is called howard stern comes again let's
pick up where we left off yesterday so attacking I say something yeah I love when you say
howard stern comes again it's I wanted to write I wanted to write a really good book that greg if
you hire a and and they would have though to me well you know way I guess it definitely has to
me possibly 3 but what's really interesting to me is that some might want to imply in the book
that somehow the whole show has changed your tune in and you're going to hear you know so
you know this syria's broadcast law we still employed tons of second grade humor and howard
street comes again such a juvenile tidal I wanted to make sure we got that in there so and
nothing pleases me more here on mpr howard stern comes in okay so what you just said how
does it feel to be doing second grade humor as you just called it when you're sixty-five I thought
maybe i'd grow out of it but I have been there I still love a fart humor you know I was far man
on mtv I love have saying a word I like it I find it interesting that you played this character far
man and I had trouble just saying a word I don't know what why is this time I hope things
embarrassing yeah well that's what I loved about it because it is embarrassing and into my
great shame even to this day I can look at old pictures of me as far as my belly hanging out my
my life yeah my toes his is so filled with cellulite what was I thinking I don't mean like yet what
mtv played it over and over again for years and years and I you know that's the thing I let it all
hang out and and I always tell myself the brunt of humor too though I think that's important I
think even to this day the reason people relax with me when I do these interviews in the book
and and on the radio they know that I’m willing to go there to they know I’m willing to discuss
the small size my penis they know I’m willing to to be fired manney let my buttocks be out
there with the sun life you know I remember the look of disgust that people had for me when
they saw that but it's not good but I listen I still love phony phone calls we are the major
manufacturer Sirius xm of phony phone well you know somebody in radio what one of the
things I found so and education all of that your show it's those people just talking to each other
like you your regulars arrive and gary and fred and the whole crew just talking to each other
about it sometimes really trivial things and mike office concept the you're attacking your own
voices and that of course you're all really smart and funny shows like lively an interesting but it
show that you can make anything interesting if you're interesting enough and telling yet if you
just sound like people talking to each other it could be a really great thing as opposed to
sounding like a announced years error like scripted well that's and that's the weird thing back
then people were doing that on the radio which is what that was the real revolution people
talking like people and you know it's funny I have written this new book would with as an
interview book people the people civil what you most proud of on the radio well yeah I guess
I’m most proud of the interviews I like how it's presented in the book and all that but really
baring days for me with the radio show and now we put the show on 3 days a week I turn to my
my people and say you know all the people work will make and also say look for the next

65

two weeks or 3 weeks don't have any guests I need a group meaning I still think my audience
appreciates the most to this day when I walk again and yeah I have an agenda behind of but I
led things unfold and it just marched into this great kind of experience where you're sitting in a
room with your friends and being funny and I have to tell you two days I know I have a guest
coming in I have a knot in my stomach sometimes because I know I’m not going to be doing
that thing that roof wii u temperatures sign felt and one of your interviews about how he and
you are always constantly taking your head how do you make what's happening no funny for
the shot or 4 0 know so it's that's that means I think that euro as removing yourself from the
situation I mean that's basically what you're signed felt as with it actuay you point out to him I
think that if you're doing that you have run pardon yourself in the world in the moment and the
other part analyzing and thinking how do I make this sunny tomorrow the jury I have a
fundamental disagreement about this my whole life has been walking around and sometimes
I’m really there but most times I mining some situation for radio and my methodology for doing
that is when it hits me always have a pad and pen around and when it hits me i'd been right to
one of my producers jason caplin then i'd go notes for air and I quickly get this stuff down and
start to develop what it is I want to talk about but as they describe in the book I never fully in a
moment I want to point it out to jerry jerry goes oh I’m never in the moment I’m always mining
from material but isn't isn't that terrible his ego is no I don't care I love it he has no problem
with it whatsoever and I say how can they not affect your life how does not affect your
relationship with your kids and your wife and he goes no he's fine with that balance or lack of
balance I know so it affected my life and not always in a good way I had to learn more balance I
have to tune it out sometimes because I’m telling you I hope this is true you terry I have a radio
show going on my head all the time all the time I can I can I just I hear it all the time I just
quickly write it down and then I go into it on the air so what's going through your mind right
now one I’m focused on what we're doing but I know when it will hit me i'll leave here i'll go
home i'll do I do transcendental meditation be doing getting into another and that shows going
to start working its way into my head I’m glad your brand of tm has given medicare doesn
you're 18 you find your mother tight you and it was a profound change my mother that got me
into it my mother was depressed woman a suicidal she had horrible life terrible terrible life lost
her mother at 9% away from home father sent to try to put in our fridge was filled we found a
family to stick them with it was her sister it was it was a real saga really really bad and in a listen
I was raised by traumatized one of she had a terrible terrible trump and and overcame a lot of
life but she became very sad when her sister died who was really hurt her only family and she
was in her 40s I come home from school my mother was just the distraught didn't know what
to do with her right I come from school she was sobbing I’m gonna go upstairs going to kill
myself I get my father would he consider how come we cheer you pieces I tell you what has
become an alcoholic with you I understand golic get rid of the even what he would he would
become an alcoholic for the woman my parents are very close to one another and he he was
saying i'll do anything but nothing worked I went off to college I was worried about her but she
called me on the phone monday and like all of a sudden I’m talking to you know the the cheery
this it sounded like miss america pageant winner something hanging down among the hell is
this and she told me she saw the moderation on the johnny carson show and she went to t me
and I’m telling you it this was a profound change you can change like that she tried medication
she even tried to take a parapet not that appealed to her but this did and it worked how could I
66

not do this I’m glad I did t your mother but s or maybe was suicidal did you ever feel that way
yourself who whom I hesitate to say that but I was pretty down i've been pretty depressed my
life and most of that occurred that the time the marriage fell apart and it was tough for him I
was lost and that's when psychotherapy came into my life what we like to have a mother who
put the idea of suicide on the table denying it because my family words meant nothing that we
have real serious conversation I thought it was all kind of maybe from just for drama yeah I
didn't have really once that you know candidate everything in my family seemed that the real
conversation up sex we could talk about race we could talk about homosexuality we could talk
about you name it we get talk about it but I was always in a joking way we talk about the news
of the day in a joking way but to really address something in a serious way that that was
difficult my guest is howard stern his new book of interviews is called howard stern comes
again we'll be back after a short break.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 15 • 2:22 AM

B_MAY_WASH_49

welcome back to that team u.s.a. I mi hyang whole time and when we left off the police in
mexico city after a cursory investigation believed that meis mees death was a suicide but daisy's
mother at citi would accept the conclusion so she decided to go looking for proof of what really
happened the night of her daughter's death proof that might exist on surveillance video
reporter and illusion noel so a lot is going to become the story now was his mom their cell he
was short her daughter would not have ended her life so she started looking for a different
answer than what the police gave her finally add selena decided to seek help in reinvestigating
with these deaths and to prove that her daughter had not committed suicide joint human rights
watch dogs enter noon on campus to ask for help I mean it is tied to the environment so yeah
all about me enough time he added is knee injury the al saud that's where she met u unita a
lawyer who agreed to take a cellie case on a pro bono the legal team told our affiliate there was
surveillance footage of the area we're as we had been found and they ask to be able to view
that footage but the attorney general's office would not release it then two months after levy's
death on july 5th 2017 are some his lawyers finally get what they were asking for the
surveillance video let's say you're sorry and the lawyer describe these videos to me as we watch
them and us and my job had a guy ask me if it isn't say here explains that the video shows that
it's may second around two 30 or 3 o'clock in the afternoon and this ad is e got a handle on the
off of him lewis e nonee e I ain't got it dan a lesbian heart hey are walking her dog together on
campus the couple appeared in numerous surveillance images that spanned from the afternoon
told early morning when they meet up with two friends to drink and campus at two a.m. the
surveillance footage shows jorge and let's speak I love and they start fighting yelling court
anyway for leicester to catch up to him and starts scuffling I am not an asset I think then that
kind my deal me in it okay yes sees eye to eye and all huh she hugs him attempting to calm him
down and he pushes her she falls down he china had e amy that would be nice hitting do so got
chased cecil the the then continue walking to the pay-phone booth where she was found you
can see in that video that cory is standing at a pay phone and as be standing behind it visibly
annoyed but then the surveillance camera turns away is connect on my path she had been ms.
he just said yes him had they implement economic there's a jump in time and take with no
67

explanation the video showed a very different story than what jorge I told everyone worries
that he had left let's be friends and didn't know what happened afterwards but they were
clearly caught on camera alone at two a.m. and had told the police they have fought and that it
hit her celis says seeing this video made her re-evaluate events around us and stuff like that
strange message she got the night before she was supposed to meet up with her daughter
asking her to come over she now thinks her daughter was trying to leave jorge and the details
that the media have published about let's be implying that was an alcoholic and use drugs the
lawyers looked at the case files and realized hard-hit spoken with the police about messi before
he even told herself she was worried about her he might have given that information to the
police in order to discredit less speak before any investigation started he took those seated kyi
kidneys on the phone with a are selling feels completely betrayed by jorge she says she always
believed he was telling the truth it seem this year so profile for me though cueto he was
worried and scared I want to know what was going on so she stayed in close contact with him
what it means to the mouse is that she let him attend her daughter's funeral be the next day
after telis other video the nightly news announced the government had detained jorge is
making a call that we all know real me the whole thing going to be but he isn't charged with
homicide because there's no video of the exact moment she got court he is charged with a
strange sounding crime homicide by mission basically that means he's charged for not
preventing let's beat from ending her life the attorney general's office put out a press release
explaining the homicide bay mission charge the news picks it up you big fella age yeah it got
there but i'll eat better all 8 and they play they play they have to pay a fine and me that I’m
they said lse and where you're talking about that and less he took the telephone cord from a
pay phone and put it around her neck and hung herself in front of her boyfriend jorge who does
nothing to stop her arizona and her lawyers immediately decided to fight this charge and they
started questioning as he and his friends about their relationship aussie lost money on this and
he could have done this yet but maybe another assume this is the first time she discovered that
jorge had repeatedly been violent toward her daughter with this new testimony barra said in
her lawyers filed for the mexico city supreme court to charge working with femicide the charge
of femicide means the court must treat ones murdered like a hate crime she said erian get his
lawyer but don't come cheap yeah you know I have a candidate a choice I just mean not
happening banning as a sham she explained to me that in mexico city at homicide can carry a
sentence of 8 to 20 years while femicide has a much harsher penalty of 30 to 60 years since we
talked the minimum has been raised to 40 years the rise of the word them aside in mexico has
to do with how the government has systematically failed to properly investigate when a woman
is murdered mysterious violent deaths of hundreds of women and girls since the early 90s do
that but as far as the border city right next to the paso with thousands of women work in
factories and as mike you know that's in the late 19 ninety's many of them started to disappear
on their way home from work their bodies were later found in the desert for years the
government failed to investigate these murders properly when the mothers of these women
realize that they would not find justice for their daughters in mexico they took their case to the
international court for human rights in 2009 this international court declared the mexican
government guilty for failing to properly investigate these women's deaths and guarantee them
their legal right to life free of violence after that the crime of femicide became part of mexico's
legal code in 2011 the situation for women has only got worse in the last decade over 24000
68

women have been killed across the country according to a recent study only 5% of murder
cases in mexico of either men or women and with a conviction in 2015 the mexican supreme
court heard its first case of femicide and ruled that in all cases involving the violent death of a
woman at the desk and must be investigated as a homicide meaning the courts and prosecutors
have to take into account the context surrounding woman staff including whether she is
experiencing domestic violence and whether the body was left.
KFFX (FOX)
May 16 • 1:30 AM

B_MAY_WASH_50

third of gun suicides and accidental deaths among children and teens could be avoided,
researchers estimate in a new study. meredith wood has more on this in today's health minute.
thirteen million homes in the u.s. have both children, and guns. and a majority of those guns
aren't safely stored --- locked up and unloaded. and new research suggests that if adults simply
locked up their guns - the number of children and teens who are killed by firearms each year
could drop by up to a third! that's according to a study published in the journal jama pediatrics.
it analyzed home gun ownership data from 2015. that year, guns injured nearly fourteenthousand minors, and were involved in the deaths of another twenty-eight hundred.
shockingly, the survey found nearly 800 of those deaths happened when guns were not locked
up. so what would happen if people made just one small change, and stored their firearms
properly? well the lead author of the study says in no small way, it would result in, quote,
"substantial reductions in firearm suicide and unintentional fatalities among u.s. youth." even if
just 50-percent of those people locked up their guns...251 children's lives would have been
saved. for today's health minute, I’m meredith wood.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 16 • 3:45 PM

B_MAY_WASH_51

a 16 year-old girl posted a question on her instagram account asking her followers she should
die or not 69% said she should die so the girl killed herself kim commandos thursday consumer
tech update brought to you by expressive vpn protect your online activity from hackers today
get 3 months free at express vpn.com / kim young woman's instagram post said really
important how we choose d or al after most were friends voted d for death she committed
suicide now lawyers are asking with the girl still be alive if the people on her instagram account
or maybe history itself offered help too late for this girl social media can be so very destructive
to young maturing mind these internet companies don't care about you or me or kids they only
care about the almighty dollar how much data they can collect and how many ads have eyeballs
you have to watch your kids online because no one else is.
KEZI (ABC)
May 16 • 8:10 PM

B_MAY_OREG_61

two Oregon senators have introduced a bill to reduce bullying at colleges and universities. ron
wyden and jeff merkley say the bill is named after tyler clementi, a freshman at rutger's who
69

died by suicide... after he was harassed and cyber bullied for being part of the lgbtq community.
the bill would require institutions to come up with policies to prohibit harassment, based on
color, race... religion, sexual orientation or gender identity. they say one in five college students
have been cyberbullied. lgbtq students are nearly twice as likely to be harassed. children with
disabilities... or those who are socially isolated are also at higher risk of being bullied. in
tonight's project safe family: a school crime and safety report found only 15 percent of bullying
incidents were reported to adults. parents can watch for unexplained injuries or lost
possessions like books or lunch boxes. not wanting to go to school in the morning, or frequently
wanting to stay home because of headaches or stomach aches. difficulty sleeping or
nightmares. parents can help by talking to kids about everything... so they trust you enough to
tell you if something's happening.
KLSR (FOX)
May 16 • 10:22 PM

B_MAY_OREG_62

suicide is the second leading cause of death for young people for people between the ages of
10 and 24. the same -- the suicide rate is three times greater than the national average.
christelle koumoui find out what is being done in our schools to address this growing problem.
>> this is her last christmas with us so this was in december, and she took her life in april. >>
reporter: jennifer baker was 16 years old that april in 1997. >> on the outside, everything
looked good, she was doing good in school, she was multisport athlete, she was an only child.
we were totally taken aback. >> reporter: darlene is no advocate for suicide prevention and
awareness, encouraging people to have a real conversation with cates about stress anxiety and
depression. >> the more we talk about mental health and remove that stigma, I mean, it is okay
if someone is sick to go to the doctor. it is no different. your mind is sick, your mind has an
issue, and it is okay to go to the doctor. >> reporter: she is also encouraging schools to join the
conversation. >> we have a smoking prevention and drug prevention and drinking and driving
prevention and the mental health of that needs to be part of that. >> reporter: entered the
hoops program, providing weekly on south healthcare clinics to nine different high schools in
the area. >> we have a binder and back with different medical gear, so we can provide basic
first aid, and referrals to community resources. >> reporter: while more schools are starting the
conversation about mental health, the gladstone school district is taking it a step further. >> we
are in the wellness center at the middle school. >> reporter: a safe place inside the school
where students can focus on their emotional and mental well-being. >> we have a scale on one
of our walls that we use with students, and if they are riding high, four or five, really upset,
what can I do to help them, to support them, to get them back down to a two which is feeling
pretty good. >> reporter: they have four rooms including a dark space, art supplies, sand trade,
and even a punchingbag. >> having a place like this has opened up the conversation, has really
helped students, teachers, families, come and have those conversations. >> reporter: the
school district near Portland is one of the first in Oregon taking this approach, an approach
darlene says it makes sense. >> you don't want to get a situation where I was when my
daughter felt like she did not have any other options. >> reporter: starting a conversation,
offering a glimpse of hope.

70

News Radio KEX
May 17 • 1:07 AM

B_MAY_OREG_63

really looking forward to that is what's happening the malaysian police are investigating the
case of a teenager could happen here were believed to have jumped to her death after asking
her social media followers to pull a gun whether she should kill herself unbelievable stories the
16 year-old had run a poll on the photo-sharing app instagram with so many people here are
using with the question really important health they choose these /l the course of the 4 died in
all 4 living hours before jumping off the roof of a building.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 17 • 2:09 AM

B_MAY_OREG_64

may be the royal city could learn from gresham they held a meeting to hear from residents.
among the accomplishments 300 homeless camps cleaned up 6400 bags of trash picked up. >>
what we have done is lead with offering assistance and offering resources and so that has
allowed us to lead with that and say we can get you a shelter bed today. >> public camping is
outlawed in the city is aggressive. [indiscernible] and neighbors are growing concern over
expanding homeless camps they have popped up in the out skirts of town. some have
suggested making a permanent camp of city-owned property but people did not like the idea.
the manager said there are no plans for a homeless camp. estimate commuters are hit with
messages from billboards but in clackamas county some signs offered some hope in people
wave signs and drivers in milwaukee said things like you matter and you are not alone for the
effort was organized by the county department of health, housing and human services in honor
of mental health awareness month and people responding to the words of encouragement. >>
we have had honking and waving and thumbs up at a lot of support from the community. >>
they will be out monday morning and colton and every thursday on monday this month. this
group tells us the biggest thing they want people to get from this, if you are suffering, reach out
to someone. our local counties have crisis of mental health lines and you can call the national
suicide prevention lifeline.
News Radio KEX
May 17 • 2:48 AM

B_MAY_OREG_65

In indonesia 140 individual but what happened in nba is they promise with all sorts of
aggressive and incorrectly tactics convince farmers that the genetically engineered cotton who
with the roof to riches and sold a lot of farmers actually bought a borrowed money from a loan
shark your secondary market as they call it was up to 7% interest per month and be feet didn't
work out well in a lot of cases failed completely and the farmers were looking at losing their
land after generation of ownership and 200 and 50000 gmo congress farmers committed
suicide rather than losing maryland hot how many 200 and 50000 committed suicide noted
suicide I don't have to absolutely a disaster and and you know there's this is well documented
71

intact leaked documents from the government acknowledged it with the be key cog in the
carrot approach so many my friend bob the shiva it door by door surveys of family that
reflected in found it of the survey there's probably other suicide there were over 3000 suicides
of plumbers about 80 to 90% of two of these suicide women serving in which each year we're
either directly or indirectly related to be key prop 85% so directly related get a 10% indirectly
related to with an absolute disaster.
KEZI (ABC)
May 17 • 9:45 AM

B_MAY_OREG_66

two Oregon senators have introduced a bill to reduce bullying at colleges and universities. ron
wyden and jeff merkley say the bill is named after tyler clementi, a freshman at rutger's who
died by suicide... after he was harassed and cyber bullied for being part of the lgbtq community.
the bill would require institutions to come up with policies to prohibit harassment, based on
color, race... religion, sexual orientation or gender identity. they say one in five college students
have been cyberbullied. lgbtq students are nearly twice as likely to be harassed. a school bus
driver who was caught on camera making a u-turn on an on-ramp is being disciplined and is
undergoing re- training. .. take a look at the video... you can see the bus driver stop in the
middle of the road yesterday... at the Winchester exit in douglas county. the driver then turns
around and heads in the wrong direction. school officials say the driver is of a long-term driver
with a strong driving record. they say they are confident that this type of incident won't happen
again.
AM 860
May 17 • 11:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_67

sharing nastiness sex abuse at ohio state and investigation released today says at least 177
male students were abused by a doctor at the school the report released by ohio state
University claims school personnel were aware of complaints against Dr. Richard Strauss from
my teens 79 through 19 ninety's 7 but failed to investigate or act meaningfully victims included
athletes at least 16 different sports Strauss was allowed to voluntarily retire in 1998 with
america's stratus he committed suicide in 2005 dozens of victims filed two lawsuits against the
school the school's President releasing a statement offering apology and profound regret those
who adored abuse.
B_MAY_WASH_52

KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 17 • 12:00 PM

the scope of the sexual abuse scandal began to surface a year ago is clear now at ohio state
university cbs's peter came the school says an investigation shows the athletic dr. richard straus
molested at least 177 young men between 1979 1997 groping inappropriately touching their
private parts they came to him for help with unrelated medical problems there are at least two
lawsuits against the school one victim told us last year the school officials were aware even
joked about it as if it were some kind of initiation stress killed himself in 2005 an ohio state
72

president has offered his profound insincere apology for what rouses 177 known victims have
had to live with for the rest of their lives.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
B_MAY_WASH_53
May 17 • 3:00 PM
Ohio state university says at least 177 man were sexually abused over a period of nearly 20
years by a team doctor dr. richard trouser committed suicide in 2005 former west to tennis
player ron mcdaniel recalled when he went to straus for treatment but cold in 1980 to do that
added laughing 0 hey you got it you're a rookie you didn't know what else I like what know
what they're like you can go to him for hanging on he has the sector testicles and they just
laughter yeah I laugh about it isn't it's absurd and it's like you guys hit your rookie okay
welcome to the club like we all went to mcdaniel told the team trainer and several teammates
about the school took no action.
FM News 101 KXL
May 17 • 4:36 PM

B_MAY_OREG_68

if you're on the school board you have control of a massive amount of public resources are
being spent for one most important things that we allow government to do something it
doesn't necessarily do all that well joining me on the phone right now is dr such as china there
john mcgarry who is running for the salem kaiser's school board doctors sondra gary thanks
very much for taking the time and tell me what inspired you to run for the board thank you very
much I really appreciate it and start healing and through our I panicked of don't think they're
graduating from fair I’m kind of score this trip my options while teaching english to non-english
speaking kids and I mean yeah spite of each school and my I have been for captured for
posterity it has filled 3 country this is my 19 deal not stayed right so all the way from honey
don't eat too much i'll be so children gretchen families and seniors and you know I thought I
had it but at some point in time you bet it that's it you just have to speak up and that was the
time but never mind the of and off skiing you look at the suicide in marion county alone not
that they’ve been off the 15 year or two suicide and yet it a school system laws school district
does not even have a simple suicide prevention all I really cannot wait for somebody get their
act together and that's when I decided I need to get out of my faith in the lord and stock option
question stuffing crescent because if it does not make any sense that doctor who think like you
to meet the don't have a game know it doesn't make any sense and also among the fund's
budget yep yet not favor of make sure I get us david they can be held think and pick them I’m
not happy with the education the outcome I’m not happy with it they think it's taking a poll out
I think shore up the school that owners either that they need look the of me and I said to
conduct be expected though when you look I’m glad you've done that now other than the
suicide prevention program I hope you can push the board to do that one of the other changes
you think would benefit the schools.
News Radio KEX
May 17 • 5:40 PM

B_MAY_OREG_69

73

let's switch gears and talk about something that happened at facebook this week that didn't get
a lot of coverage because yes you know other things are going on and their tolerance
facebook's tolerance for should now get online is getting shorter joining us is michael bauer nbc
news radio with an update on one strike they have that facebook is proposing michael welcome
back to our base show thrilled to be with you sir yeah I think we can agree this one strike policy
may actually be zero-tolerance policy when you look at it because you're going to get this one
shot and frankly he was talking about this is really a majority of the warning that any facebook
user is going to get in regards to this debate amid a various offenses bell a whole lot of that
because we don't know what those offensive guard but he committed various offend fans you
may be removed from being able to broadcast over facebook live for a set period of time
doucette period of time also sounds relatively bags so that's the case we don't know what
those details we do know that it doesn't have to be a situation where are you on facebook live
what they're saying is there something you posted on facebook or reacted to somebody else's
post that could put a blockade between you and facebook live and possibly even the network
as a whole that's really interesting so this doesn't apply to something you might say or do on
facebook live it could be something that I posed or repost or share something that is so
detrimental to rule them society or put people in danger you guys even with that it doesn't
even have to be emphatic street make it would be technically this would be extreme but you
could be somebody who's going through depression a post on facebook you're pressing or
thinking you're contemplating suicide you're thinking about suicide and friends start posting
mary here telling you not to do it you get strangers on facebook although we know this never
happened on facebook telling you to go ahead and do it why don't you will facebook might see
that with their algorithms what they got for their artificial intelligence come across and go
whoa whoa hold on a second here let's take a look at that post a little closer though take a look
at it and they might not only blocky of the individual making the post but all the people
responded to the post as well depending on the content therein because they want to do more
than anything put a huge blockade between you and possibly committing suicide on facebook
live so it could be something that terror based it could be you know this elevation of political
free speech and hate speech we've seen so much recently could be an element of just because
it's all very subjective something that triggers a red flag in facebook and then they have to go
and take a closer look at this to determine if they should keep you away from facebook live in
the reason they're saying they're doing this is because there's been a collection of world leaders
including new zealand's prime minister we're calling on tech companies to sign a pledge to
increase their efforts to combat what they call toxic content home on that because that's the
word he used again here but that toxic content facebook says that if they have this in place a
couple months ago they could have prevented the christ church attacker in new zealand from
using facebook live to broadcast his attack in new zealand they say that based upon post he
made on his facebook page it would have brought up red flags if that's been in place a couple
months ago brought up red flags they could put a gigantic barrier in front of him from using
facebook live and thus be 12 minutes the horrific videos were broadcast on facebook live I
would never have been released the video portion of that would never have rights and only
applies to facebook live the ban not not your whole account they could go all out depending on
if it's something that's it you're a visual person posting you kind of thing if they could depend on
what the actual messages or its level of ratcheted up to a threat on some level they're
74

concerned about they may suspend you 30 days 60 days from your account in general or if they
feel like it's a problem issue and they may just suspend you as a whole from facebook it's a long
time coming it baby step but it could step in and then just a footnote here to what you're
talking about the australian prime minister warning the world to weigh in on this to sign on to
the u.s. denied that said we're back we're not be part of this which I found yeah exactly
interesting to me this we've got a high-tech companies are the ones that are going to have to
answer for that I think facebook being the first real big one here making steps some 24 hours
after they were calling the world leaders are calling for this I think now you have to see twitter
about and frankly a lot of people consider social media be the world's biggest chat remember
the good old AOL chat rooms where you have a moderator to kick people while there's been no
moderator for social media as a whole and now each individual group going to have to step up
and do that facebook launching this may see twitter and other forms instagram's sort of follow
pacing and really keep a close eye on what to being bad michael bauer nbc news radio.
News Radio KEX
May 17 • 6:13 PM

B_MAY_OREG_70

after performing with soundgarden in detroit but chris cornell is found dead from an apparent
suicide at the age of 52 I am and I told this at I gave my opinion on the issue of suicide a few
years ago I have a few months ago I do this a couple times a year but I got the nicest message
from somebody who said you know I’m always been so angry at mott his brother committed
suicide said i've always been so angry at my brother over his suicide and for the first time ever I
have a piece beyond understanding and because what she said and I really internal us should
finish people often say that was a and all us said which I believe to be true selfish as I don't
mind him the popular that person should be hey would be theory that suicide itself so often
should and my point to that and do it again this goes back to the senate faith issue I hope by
the way all officer brett officer barnes said he was not in a position to talk and I appreciate that
I know that it's today and especially tomorrow are very difficult days for him emotionally I
appreciate his call and letting us know that and more importantly we appreciate his service to
the community and what he did a year ago I’m not I know that day you will remember that day
not the least of which because home his body is is torn up because of the damage sustained but
because of the trauma and what happened on that day so he would not be our guest and we
completely understand and wish him the absolute best in his recovery but on that on the issue
so sad I received this e-mail from a listener and it meant a lot to me because he said that for
these several years since his brother committed suicide he been so angry at his brother over
that with he felt that his brother had been so selfish he was mad at his brother for having been
selfish and I’m not an expert in suicide and I’m not an expert much of anything but I do believe
that to mental health issues are difficult far more complicated then then they are portrayed
they're very complex and that is the case that for someone to be at the position at the state in
life that they want to commit suicide how it will affect you their brother with their friend or
anything else is the least of their work feels sad that person wasn't such a bad place and they
saw no way that's what you don't want to build just go ahead and say it sorry.

75

KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 17 • 6:30 PM

B_MAY_WASH_54

an ohio state university a year-long independent investigation finds that a former team doctors
sexually assaulted nearly 180 students over the course of 20 years and they haven't sells us
remember station w o s u v allegations began in the late 70s shortly after dr. richard straus
began working at the university the doctor died in an apparent suicide in 2005 the newly
released report found that dozens of athletes and other students and administrators reported
richard strauss's conduct the school failed to adequately respond brian garret is one of the
plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the university what we've been saying for over a year we people
reporter a field event here and not even playing amendment validation I like the case against
ohio state is set to enter mediation later this year with a federal judge overseeing the dispute.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 17 • 6:48 PM

B_MAY_OREG_71

deaths by suicide in the United States have been rising and that includes among young people a
new study shows that the rate of suicide among teenage girls has been rising faster than boys
encouraged me to Chatterjee reports suicide is the leading cause of death among children and
adolescents in the United States and boys are more likely to die by suicide and guts but the new
study finds that could both are catching up quickly we saw significant disproportionate increase
in female this suicide rate John Rouge is a researcher at nationwide children's hospital in
Columbus Ohio she says the increase was highest for growth H 10 to 14 rising by nearly 13%
since 2007 from boys it only rose by 7% asked where we saw the most significant gains yelling
of this gender gap if you will no one knows what's driving the trend and it's likely to be a makes
the fact that affects christine with the chief medical officer at the American Foundation for
suicide Prevention but she said social media could be playing an important role social media
really cannot be ignored any longer that's because she says the vast majority of children and
adolescents are spending a lot of time put to bed devices and while social media can make
them feel more connected to people in their lives and chance said studies show that it can also
make their mental health heavy screen time night time utilization that can disrupt sleep people
who have anxiety depression or psychological vulnerabilities may have more negative
experience and recent studies show that I’m more sensitive to the negative effects of social
media is joan newbie she is a psychiatrist at Washington University school of medicine and
wrote a commentary accompanying the new study which was published in this week's jam on
the clock open girls our more often then boy is cyber bullying on social media that they tend to
have much more negative psychological fats that cyber bullying they tend to get more
depressed The result will be says another reason by social media math test not just guns for all
children and adolescents is that it has changed how the kids interact with one another they're
now interacting the room devices and they're not having live in person and action in-person
interactions and social support she said a crucial protective factor as against mental health

76

issues including a suicide Greek tragedy and can use and if you were someone you know may
be considering suicide please contact the National suicide Prevention lifeline.
FM News 101 KXL
May 17 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_72

ohio state university as a team doctor now they had sexually abused at least 177 male students
over a period of nearly two decades author richard kraus committed abuses from 1979 like
uniting 7 but you begin to stevie reporter kevin minders charles retired 1998 and later
committed suicide in 2005 at the age of 67 the release of the supporters not the end of this
story many of those who filed a complaint against the university are now seeking monetary
damages in court that as president michael drake issued a statement saying quote it's
outrageous that the university fundamentally failed to prevent the abuse decades ago ohio
state will continue to marshal resources to support survivors the report said university officials
knew about it and did little if anything to stop him.
KDRV (ABC)
May 17 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_73

a bill aimed at putting polices in place in order to prevent youth suicide has passed the Oregon
house of representatives. "adi's act" was named after a Portlandhigh school student who
committed suicide in 2017. the bill would require that the state board of education and Oregon
health authority work to adopt rules that would help prevent suicide. the Oregon health
authority says that suicide is the second leading cause of death among youth between the ages
of 10 and 24 in the state. the bill now heads to the governor’s desk.
KFXO (FOX)
May 17 • 7:10 PM

B_MAY_OREG_74

all Oregon schools will soon have to adopt plans and policies to preve youth suicid a bill called
"adi's act" on needs the governor's signature it's named after a Portland teenager who died by
suicide in 20-1 the state board of education will work with the Oregon health authority create a
guide for districts. suicide is the second leading cause death among the ages of ten to 24 in
oregon
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 17 • 7:37 PM

B_MAY_OREG_75

lincoln: a bombshell report released today alleges a former doctor for ohio state university
sexually abused nearly 200 male students and that officials knew about it and did nothing. the
report claims dr. richard straws groped and took advantage of at least 177 young athletes from
1979-97. straws died by suicide in 2005. the report also alleges straws's behavior was known by
university staff including coaches, trainers, and other team doctors who did nothing. today
some of his victims called on the university to take responsibility for its inaction.
77

KNDO (NBC)
May 17 • 8:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_55

teen death by suicide is a problem that has not only plagued the tri-cities community, but the
entire country as well. we hear story after story of a young person taking their life too soon. but
one organization is hoping to make a difference this weekend. wake up nation works to
empower and motivate teens across the tri-cities. they're hosting a fundraiser this saturday, to
try and help stop this epidemic. what we have seen is a dramatic spike in suicide attempts and
also children that are dying by suicide and we thought that we had to be the voice and put a
megaphone to what's going on not only in this region but around the country the event will be
saturday night at tap and barrel in richland, starting at 3 pm. the 10-dollar entry fees and all the
money raised in an auctioilgo towards the wake-up nation mission, which works to fight teen
suicide. please remember -- there is help available 24-seven. if you or someone you know needs
someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is
on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KDRV (ABC)
May 17 • 8:05 PM

B_MAY_OREG_76

a bill aimed to prevent teen suicide passed the Oregon house today. "adi's act" is named after a
Portland high school student died by suicide in 2017. the bill will require the state board of
education to adopt rules to help prevent suicide. school districts will be able to utilize suicide
prevention experts to help develop their suicide prevention plans and policies. according to the
Oregon health authority, suicide is the 2nd leading cause of death among young people
between the ages of 10 and 24 in oregon. the bill now goes to governor brown to be signed. if
you or someone you know is thinking about suicide- please reach out for help. you're seeing the
number for the national suicide prevention lifeline on your screen right now. there's also
people available to chat online.
KTVZ (NBC)
May 17 • 8:09 PM

B_MAY_OREG_77

all Oregon schools will soon have to adopt plans and policies to prevent youth suicide. a bill
called adi's act only needs the governor's signature. it's named after a Portland teenager who
died by suicide in 20-17. the state board of education will work with the Oregon health
authority to create a guide for districts. suicide is the second leading cause of death between
the ages of ten and 24 in oregon. ### you can find several central Oregon resources for those
struggling with thoughts of suicide or other mental health issues on our website. just click 'let's
talk' under the community tab at k-t-v-z dot com.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 17 • 8:30 PM

B_MAY_WASH_56

78

a new study finds the rate of suicide among adolescents has been going up since 2007 but the
rate for girls is rising much faster than 4 boys in paris read to chatterjee explains suicide is the
leading cause of death for children aged 10 to 19 hands while boys are more likely to die by
suicide the new study finds that girls are catching up donor rouge is a researcher at new
nationwide children's hospital in columbus ohio and an author of the new study she says the
steepest rise in suicide treats his book each 10 to 14 years rising by nearly 13% rise for boys
only rose by 7% that's where we saw the most significant narrowing of this gender gap if you
will the findings published in this week's chama netbook open create a strategy.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 17 • 8:48 PM

B_MAY_OREG_78

brain Institute with a lecture on suicide and experiences at the end of life by Dr anthony fauci
this details that O hs you dot pd you backslash feet 8 passes here in tune with the PP this
evening in Portland enforced grew that anyone point 5 F them in her valus send junction city
you have a set 5 50 a.m. and matter why where you find yourself today or through the
weekend you can find us online at the P.D. got word this is all things considered from npr news
I’m our shura and audie cornish deaths by suicide United States have been rising and that
includes among young people new study shows that the rate of suicide among teenage girls has
been rising faster than boys and girls retreat Chatterjee reports suicide is the leading cause of
death among children and adolescents in the United States and boys are more likely to die by
suicide and guts but the new study finds that could both are catching up quickly we saw a
significant hopes disproportionate increase in female suicide rate John Rouge is a researcher at
nationwide children's hospital in Columbus Ohio she says the increase was highest for growth
aged 10 to 14 rising by nearly 13% since 2007 from boys it only rose by 7% that's where we saw
the most significant gains yelling of this gender gap if you well no one knows what's driving the
trend and it's likely to be a makes the fact that said Chris teen o.t.a. the chief medical officer at
the American Foundation for suicide Prevention but she says social media could be playing an
important role social media that really cannot be ignored any longer that's because she says the
vast majority of children and adolescents are spending a lot of time plugged into the devices
and while social media can make them feel more connected to people in their life but chancece
studies show that it can also make their mental health heavy screen time night time utilization
that can disrupt sleep people who have anxiety depression or psychological vulnerabilities may
have more negative experience and recent studies show that both are more sensitive to the
negative effects of social media is joan newbie she is a psychiatrist at Washington University
school of medicine and wrote a commentary accompanying the new study which was published
in this week's jam on the book open girls our more often then boy raise its cyber bullying on
social media that they tend to have much more negative psychological facts that cyber bullying
they can to get more depressed As a result of these says another reason by social media math
test not just guns for all children and adolescents is that it has changed how kids interact with
one another there now interacting the rule devices and they're not having live in person and
action in past interactions and social support she's fast Aah crucial protective factors against
mental health issues including a suicide Re protected she and can use and fewer someone you
know maybe considering suicide priest contact the National suicide Prevention lifeline.
79

B_MAY_WASH_57

KNDO (NBC)
May 17 • 9:00 PM

teen death by suicide is a problem that's not only plagued the tri- cities community, but the
entire country as well. but as justin honore reports.. one tri-cities organization is trying to do
their part to end that. we thought that we had megaphone to what's to be the voice and put a
going on not only in this region but around the country isaac butts and his team at wake up
nation have been impacting teens lives in the tri- cities community for years feeling it is their
duty to combat teen suicide. suicide is a huge problem in this area in particular I think a lot of
students in this region are finding a hard time finding value in who it is that they are butts can
relate to what many teens are feeling. after his football playing days at the university of idaho
were over, depression took over. a lot people would say oh isaac you are doing great you have
everything going for you but internally you are sitting back and you are trying to cope with all
these things and it's just hard to cope with now butts is trying to help those going through
something similar by holding a fundraiser for teen suicide awareness at the tap & barrel bar.
and the bar is happy to help out where they can we are kind of a community driven bar so it is
kind of locally owned and everything so I think it was really cool to be able to contribute more
into the community proceeds for the event will go towards the wake up nation foundation that
strives to help teens. butts believes he is the perfect person to connect to the youth i've dealt
with suicidal thoughts with this personally on my level and I thought look we got to do
something we have to reach out to these kids we can't allow this to keep happening and
standby idly butts wants people to have a good time but he also doesn't want them to forget
why they are at the event my main hope is that a seed is planted that every single person that
walks in here and they figure out that it is on us to do our part justin honore nbc right now that
was justin honore reporting. the event will be taking place tomorrow night at "tap and barrel"
in richland, starting at three. the 10-dollar entry fee and all the money raised in the auction will
go towards the "wake up nation", which will use it for programs that fight teen suicide. and
please remember -- there is help available 24-seven. fee and all the mey ised in the auction ll
goowards the ake up naon", which will u it r programs that fight teen suicide. and please
remember -- there is help available 24-seven. if you or someone you know needs someone to
talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline. that number is on your
screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
News Radio KEX
May 17 • 11:04 PM

B_MAY_OREG_79

our top story a student from part rose high school a group rest after bringing a gun into the
school 11 90 kg x's spread forward has the story class was underway when the student walked
in with a gun is the most terrifying scenes that adverb band through and we all just granted
seconds I called the cops is in his right hand the suspect was time about the school's football
coach and taken into custody by police the student says doing because he did start acting a
there were warnings I did is I little here and you get let people cannot know you had a guy is
that they each have one was investigating the motive for the school districts will be required to
develop a suicide prevention policy and rebuild the past the Oregon legislature it's called adi
80

law named after eddie stop died from suicide in 2017 after coming out as trans gender
represented care and powers says it's important the school's recognize what a student is in
crisis life is hard enough for you we're growing into themselves and learning about themselves
when we add the particular difficulties Oregon faces in unmet mental health and housing needs
children should have access to support system that schools suicide is the second leading cause
of death for people between the ages of 10 and 24 in Oregon this bill will require the state to
create a model suicide prevention policy and school districts can create their own policy based
on certain requirements in the bill it goes to the governor for his signature.
FM News 101 KXL
May 18 • 12:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_80

ohio state university's president is apologizing after a report found that the late dr. richard
straus former team doctor at the school sexually abused at least 100 77 male students over a
20 year period brian europe was one of his victims and explains why he's speaking out doing
this no other college student ever asked to go to this whether student a student athlete ever
again the two administrators out there in seoul let this happen I can a report released today
finds that officials knew what was happening but did nothing to stop it straus committed
suicide in 2005.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 18 • 1:00 AM

B_MAY_WASH_58

Dr Richard Strauss from ohio state University sexually abused at least 177 students over 17
years that's according to the report which the O's community says decade overdue ABC with
johnson as the data Straus was never officially disciplined retiring 1998 and then dying by
suicide in 2005 the President of ohio state University calling its failure to protect students
unacceptable we have complete sympathy and empathy for survivors and our hearts go out to
the number of victims are now suing ohio state University seal offering to help by paying for
professional counseling it's also unveiling a long list of changes to help prevent abuse like this
from ever happening again.
News Radio KEX
May 18 • 1:08 AM

B_MAY_OREG_81

according to a new study researchers at nationwide children's hospital in columbus ohio
analyze suicide rates of us kids and teens aged 10 to 19 between 1975 in 2016 using what they
call the wide ranging online data run by the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention in
that period there were more than 85000 suicides and kids and teens with 80% and boys and
20% and girls the rates of suicide peak the 19 ninety's 3 and had been in the decline until 2007
when they started to climb again let's check in with our resident psychiatrist dr peter brega and
who's an expert in some of these matters peter what's going on here why this suicide rate girl
rising well I think fuel if your social media liquor really what can you and boys are easily caught
him do it read do you make of credit but it's crucial relationship but if just repeal it with heart of
81

many things that are upsetting young people but I think I can tell with psychiatric drugs the arc
here that really caused this increase in suicide I could get things done more to do with your eye
I think there's a lot to do that eat in 2007 and 8 which is when this increase occurred the first
important thing though is not an increase in suicide and it can increase in suicides competed
actual suicide nba and I give them drugs and crime in general but I actually am dan thank you
christian drugs callers were suicide suicide the girl used to take drugs and they would but much
smaller percentage succeed in killing themselves and now I think if they call for the influence of
multiple drugs they are getting now including antidepressants the they're doing more hanging
themselves hang onto those much boys do wish it would have never done before the tape
comes out of I think that there is that he will what is what iran idea of pressure feeling to a
large number of our kids and also in 2007 be thee resume why is immediate use event that he
pressed they trailed off a little bit because they got a black box warning for them for suicide so
good suicidal behavior so what they've lied to doctors they want the cup back on this well the
pharmaceutical industry and hundreds of lackey doctors went wild after that from 2004 2008
doctors who clearly buoyed by the drug companies convince physicians that could mean many
things that still going to cause more harm you by not helping these kids with the depression
even though the evidence shows and I pray for the health care with depression the drug
companies in this space spending that kind of money by getting the big got cruz and so on
they're ready for also rate for each completed suicides highest among white it e-mails and the
children youth group and and they're giving her the kids that have the most access for
psychiatric treatment for psychiatric drugs in error skyrocketed from about that period of 2002
1008 any coies suicide depression one of mr. perry has a black rock warning and also pushed
aside the suicidal behavior also during this time john and john what doctors at harvard to start
pushing through with a goal for children the kids to get a leg bone with I polar and getting these
are all old drug and impact they've they've faced huge two billion more a fine from the federal
government in part for a full seat pushing these drugs I’m kid's phone and then some the we
have a huge flow of drugs like kids now I’m I’m calling judge have been calling for about a year
now from more hoary much stop prescribing psycho active flips and forth with if they good for
them one of peter's books medication that those of this website bragging prrity gg I am dotcom
peter thank you so much always great to have somebody with your caliber on the program.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 18 • 2:11 AM

B_MAY_OREG_82

firefighters in vancouver used their emergency lights to raise awareness about a serious
concern. tonight firefighters with clark county fire district 6 moved their engines outside and
turned the lights on for one minute as part of a national event called those left behind. the
event honors those who have taken their own lives while sending a message to others that
there is hope and help available. officials say they have seen more firefighters and first
responders committing suicide every year. >> we have an issue in our business where we enjoy
helping people, we feel that that's our job. but sometimes we don't find help for ourselves.
when we stack on things that may be over long-term we can't processor deal with. >> fire
district 6 also recently formed a peer support team to help members having a hard time with

82

the call or suffering from ptsd. if you or someone you know needs help you can call the national
suicide prevention like and we have more resources on our website as well as kptv.com.
KHQ (NBC)
May 18 • 2:20 AM

B_MAY_WASH_59

tonight, there are shocking new allegations surrounding ohio state univesity... saying a now
deceased team doctor for the school... sexually abused almost 2- hundred students. a new
report by an independent investigator... says doctor richard strauss molested at least 177
young men at the school from the 70's to 90's. the report also says school knew... and did
nothing. strauss retired from the athletic department in 1998... and killed himself in 2005.
today the president of o-s-u apologized. survivors say it's the first step in the school taking
responsibility. garrett says: "finally for him to go from... 'oh, we don't know what happened, we
don't know what happened' finally to go.. 'osu failed to act'.... that was a huge step for us. it
validates what we've been saying." three groups of former students are now suing o- s-u. just
yesterday... a state lawmaker introduced a new bill... to prevent any statute of limitations on
thier cases. we've been saying." three groups of former students are now suing o- s-u. just
yesterday... a state lawmaker introduced a new bill... to prevent any statute of limitations on
thier cases.
KXLY (ABC)
May 18 • 2:20 AM

B_MAY_WASH_60

an investigation into an ohio state university team doctor... who died years ago... found he
sexually abused at least 177 students during his time at the investigators say the abuse by
richard strause happened between 19-79 and 19-96.. victims were allegedly groped and
touched inappropriately during exams... the report also says college officials new of the abuse...
but failed to act. investigators conducted interviews with 177 students who provided firsthand
accounts of experiences with dr.strauss that involved sexual abuse. some of the exams took
place in non-clinical locations such as locker rooms.despite the open secret of the abuse...
strause was never diciplined for the alleged actions. he retired from the job in 19-98... and died
by suicide in 2005.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 18 • 3:00 AM

B_MAY_WASH_61

the team doctor at ohio state University sexually abused at least 177 students over 17 years
that's according to a new report which survivors say is long overdue ABC where Johnson with
the details the President of ohio state University calling the report shocking and painful the
investigation into a team Dr Richard Straus finding that he sexually abused at least 177 male
students and college officials knew for decades but failed to act the report detailing abuse
between 1979 1996 victims alleging they were groped and touched inappropriately during
exams calling the abuse an open secret Richard Strauss committed suicide in 2005.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
B_MAY_WASH_62
83

May 18 • 3:05 AM
Ohio state university has released a report indicating that one of its former team doctor sexual
abuse nearly 180 students from the 19 seventy's through the 19 ninety's the school did little or
nothing to stop him dr. richard strauss was accused of groping or ongoing young male patients
the report says at least 50 members of the athletic department staff corroborated the victims'
claims straus apparently committed suicide in 2005.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 19 • 1:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_83

thank you for joining us tonight. I’m nora and bonnie has the night off. the high school students
celebrated their prom togha day after a gun scare. the student was accused of bringing a gun
into a classroom. he's facing charges including reckless endangerment and attempting to
discharge a firearm at school. they have a photo of the shot gun. he was taken into custody
after the coach tackled him down and held him down. it was frightening. the school district said
that they had reported the suspect about his behavior. we spoke with one of those students. >>
first spoke with morris in the parking lot of the high school on friday as she came to grips with
what happened. >> I talked to the dude and he was telling me why he was going through a lot
and he was attempting suicide and stuff like that. I would talk to him about his problem
because he's in my gym class. >> she's being lauded as a hero. keegan lowe tackled diaz and she
reflected on those decisions she made to speak up. >> I think life is hard and going to end it.
problems at home. never be rude to people. you never know what they're going through. you
could save somebody's life. >> she said she tried to offer words of encouragement and he could
confide in her. she felt something wasn't right and after class was of she told her teacher. >>
mak me nervous and scare me the stuff he was saying. >> that action by morris and other
students spurred a response by the staff at the school. morris is still reeling from how that was
a few moments after she talked with diaz. >> I feel bad. I wish he could have found a better way
to cope with his stress.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 19 • 1:32 AM

B_MAY_WASH_63

the suicide rate among young girls is growing faster than that two boys Tom roberts says details
researchers at nationwide children's hospital in Columbus Ohio found that while teen boys are
nearly 4 times more likely to commit suicide and girls the gap significantly narrowing the study
analyzed suicide rates of kids ages 10 to 19 over a 40 year period starting in 2007 the suicide
rate for girls ages 10 to 14 increased almost 13% per year compared to 7% for boys the same
age a similar rate was seen for older teens with suicides among girls ages 15 to 19 rising nearly
8% to 3 and a half % for boys suicide is the second leading cause of death among U.S. teens
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 19 • 2:25 AM

B_MAY_OREG_84

84

we're helping shine a spotlight on an issue that's not talked about very often, suicide inside
Oregon state prisons. the [indiscernable] correction institute was the first to hold out of the
darkness walk and today was their third year and kieton thomas spent the afternoon to hear
their stories. >> making laps around the country in the correctional institution and many
carrying a note for who they are walking for. for jimmy, it's their sons. >> I want them to know
there's compassion. >> his son walked by him side by side, one of the visitors. >> there's a bit of
emotion because I know my son always has my back. my children, they support me no matter
what i've done in the past. >> reporter: like many, he has friends who have died by suicide. he
attempted it, too, but today was about hope knowing there's always someone to talk to. >> I
want to create awareness and some kind of foundation so that my children can have a place to
go if they need help. >> reporter: pedro perez also in custody, lost a close friend growing up. >>
prison has the misconception that these guys are tough or we have a bad reputation, but if you
look around, we're standing together behind this cause. >> I’m honored to be here today. >>
reporter: even dave dall from dave's killer bread shared his battle with suicide. >> you can't be
tough and do that at the same time. >> this is a walk for suicide prevention and their leader
hopes it spreads to other facilities, other states and they are leading the pack. >> the real hard
conversations, the ones hard to have that can be awkward, you have to have them and it can
be the difference between life and death for some people. >> that was kieton thomas
reporting. as of now, there are five institutions in Oregon doing walks just like this one. in
portland, there is an event to show your support for mental health care with 6,000 people to
gather at noon for the walk and the organizers say it's the largest mental health event held on
the west coast and a reminder, the national lifeline is available any time you or someone you
know wants to talk about mental health.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 19 • 3:45 AM

B_MAY_WASH_64

been working as a team for more than a year on the case filling in critical gaps in the mystery
they say that boyfriend spots became a suspect for early in their investigation of fellow actors
here in his acting real shocker for police for you do they say he was engaged to another woman
at the time of his relationship with Chobani a month after her disappearance Giovanni's body
was found in northern california and she died of blunt force trauma and police reportedly went
looking to speak to spots eyewitness news has learned the man police say shot and killed
himself following a pursuit that ended in corrode Thursday night was that they should bodies
boyfriend unfor truly the motive may never be known spots sean and killed himself after a
Chase with California highway patrol this situation is highly unique in that you know both there
was a homicide occurred and that are primary sus Back-to-back time committed suicide and
now sponsors family is trying to help trails take for the truth shirt is information we want to
know what happened we know he's carcasses good kid he's never won his life we know it can't
be him but we also want the truth and trust your objective about and which includes they say
handing over his digital footprint they gave us his account information unbeknownst to most
people who was not just tracking you but it's very easy to find yourself for Texas took out and
find your exact movements everywhere you've been down to the minute it's insane.

85

KHQ (NBC)
May 19 • 10:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_65

family and friends said goodbye to shianne soles...a 19-year-old central valley graduate...and
active duty service member. soles was killed in an apparent double murder suicide two weeks
ago in virginia. today her family wanted a military service.. since soles had joined the navy
recently... and as tradition... a 21 gun salute. gun saulte her family told us soles had big dreams
and wanted to see the world. so joining the navy was one way that she could do that. two
weeks ago.. soles had left the camp with a friend.. when a man soles knew took them by
surprise... police are saying he shot the two women and then himself. soles had a younger
brother.. and loving parents... shawna eagle.. her mother... said soles was always surrounded
by friends. and today they remembered the young woman she was. 51:18 " I remember when
she came home for christmas after two days I was like it's so noisy here. her just so big, but
presence was the silence when she was gone was so much bigger" the family said they've
received so much love these past few weeks.. and shianne's aunt wanted to remind everyone
that even as the days go on.. to not forget about shianne's legacy.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 19 • 10:22 AM

B_MAY_OREG_85

welcome back. only on katu, we are helping shine a spotlight on an ssue not discussed very
often. suicide inside Oregon state prisons. santiam correctional institution was the first in the
nation to hold an out of the darkness walk. >> making laps around the track many quarter a
note to say who they are walking for for jimmy it's his sons. >> I want them to know that there's
compassion and help out there and that they can talk about it. >> he is in custody. saturday ->> I think something happened -- [shouting] >> making laps around the track at santiam
correctional institution many carried a note to say who they are walking for. >> I want my sons
to know there's compassion and help and that they can talk about it. >> he's in custody.
saturday his son walked with him side by side, one of dozens of visitors. >> it was a bit of
emotion involved because I know my sons always got my back. my children support me. you
know. no matter what I have done in the past. >> like many, he has friends who have died by
suicide. he attempted it too. but today was about hope, knowing there's always someone to
talk to. >> I just want to create awareness and some kind of foundation so that my children can
have a place to go if they need help. >> pedro perez lost a close friend growing up. >> prison
has the misconception that these guys are tough or we have a bad reputation but you see all of
this standing together behind this cause. >> even dave dahl shared his battle with suicidal
thoughts% while in prison. >> I was trying to be tough. can't be tough and tell on yourself at the
same time. >> it was the people in custody who spearheaded this walk with the american
foundation for suicide prevention three years ago. their leaders hope it spreads some people.
>> that was keaton thomas reporting. the national suicide prevention lifeline is available any
time if you or somebody you know wants to speak with somebody about your mem health. the
number is on your screen. happening today, you can show support for mental health care in
portland. 6,000 people are expected to gather at noon on the east bank is metro esplanade for
nami walks northwest. they say it's the largest held on the west coast.
86

KIRO-AM (Radio)
May 19 • 11:34 AM

B_MAY_WASH_66

I want to talk with you about something you mentioned more than once every time you say the
words it frightens me the suicide because he is with good reason Yes right try Jemele all around
us I was able to say you did you did well okay thank you so talk to us talk to us about the suicide
disease wise call that well the try it in your religion is just an ad normal condition the notion
that they know from this side of the face with 3 broad Is coal cry Jemele I tried standing for 3
major and and when they pay people get tm Whatf regimen out and tn may be any easier time
for us to use it is not as the suicide disease because more human beings commit suicide
because of this condition and with this condition than any other single condition was like
unrelenting pain aside your pain and really it guests and and and it affects people just wind
blowing on the face just turning ahead just brushing against the skin these are the kind of
things that sound and how long can this last was good good to go I people will have their whole
lives and pay to play well the slums they don't commit suicide they come to the audience can
be a very large but it can also be a smaller part of the face correct Yeah can affect both we
know there's more common one to the lives and can change you can move around one of
Europe's patience is been kind enough to join us here this morning but Frankie in federal way is
here with us Hi Frank welcome to the show I think it's good to be here you a great name it it's
nice to meet you so my understanding is you had the suicide.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 19 • 7:16 PM

B_MAY_OREG_86

show up at the restaurant next door Joe beef and my other restaurant fills up at 6 30 the report
House next door so I’m hopping from one restaurant and the other got glasses of wine on 20
tables and telling stories and entertaining there's always someone is always a chef from new
yorkers always a winemaker from the from from the large Valley there's always another shot
from Chicago to coming tomorrow there's always one of my peers coming right if there's always
someone to entertain there's always someone I have to put a show one even if I didn't feel like
it just became like this is how I earn my living I get paid by being this legend Gary Halverson
keeper who celebrates life with everyone right now was it that you know getting to a point
where I I assumed that role that I was going to be it's unhealthy arson Wells typed chef who
eats and drinks himself to death I was be carried out on my shield late back Yes right now but it
just became unsustainable I I did I would I didn't enjoy the restaurant business anymore I didn't
enjoy the active cooking I didn't enjoy wines I didn't enjoy you know I built a kind of cool
company with my associates and I didn't I blamed the company you know for my misery I just
got into a dark place that I could no longer see joy again Yeah right but when you thought you
had a problem it I seen a friend of mine rang Gray who owns a restaurant called Lane would
work with me for a decade we drank together famously running restaurants right he got sober
a couple of years before I did and it you know at first I was like rule he scared me right he knew
something I didn't do nothing yet information that I should get I wasn't ready to get yet to
come but we know one thing led to another I felt that the people around me just started
realizing that I was kind of caught in the trap but out that I was going out like on the shield for
87

that for the people Yeah and a couple of managers in the restaurant together they called a
friend of mine who actually was so famous interventionist and they just intervene me one day
when morning they said listen we feel like you're not happy we found this Help its local we love
you go there you seem unhappy you seema arrived will you take to help we're offering you I
said Yeah you know what absolutely because I've been to the point right kind of Google
stopped drinking a few times I tried to make changes in my life I could never string together
more than 4 days sobriety like I live really half isolate myself at the leak was no friends and
white-knuckle it like you know I was always very high functioning like how I got my work done I
worked a lot I did restaurant work you know 12 or 14 hours a day but always under Fe he's the
depressant called alcohol all right so a steady stream of depressant day in and day out a month
after month year after year I ended up 47 47 years old inside a beautiful company serving
terrific food surrounded by terrific people the most miserable person sitting at the top of the
pyramid of the restaurant Yeah so I took the help that was offered to me and her enormous
amount of things rehab like the Chatsworth rehabilitation center locally here in montreal I
learned about alcoholism but the 12 steps which I knew nothing about a co-dependent see and
learn about traumatic events in my life that might have in help put me in an area that might be
sensitive to you know abusing alcohol abuse and meditative so once I figured all of these things
was just clear to me in a very clear to me that I could work you know that I had a problem in
that I could get through it and took a little bit of time mom I saw a side Council with my friend
Ryan Gray who worked in the restaurant and his St. Louis J who buys wine zoo over I spent a
little bit of time with him in his restaurant the restaurant not not one of mine is you know just
get my legs back ride to the pass I put on an apron a dispatched food all night now for about a
month I did my 12 hours of hard kitchen labor I drank bottled water I went home exhausted
legend he heman found the bottom of netflix and I got my confidence back to be able to go
back to my restaurants right once was it and I went back to my restaurant and today I can say
that you andrew people in common I encourage over eating I encourage celebratory drinking I
just realized that I’m one of the people that historically does not drink alcohol responsibly right
so now that I know that and now that I’m surrounded by it you know people and I am a are
taking meetings and have a tight knit group of sober people around me I can participate and
enjoy this is gift I've been given a really we'll be back with more from Russia toward Dave
McMILLAN the Joe be about how he learned to be back and restaurants after he became sober
if you are dealing with substance use disorder please now it's not about willpower it's an illness
if you're a crisis just need someone to talk with you can find trained counselors 24 hours a day
at the crisis textbook text message to 7 4 won 7.1 Oh recalled the suicide Prevention lifeline.
KXLY (ABC)
May 19 • 7:40 PM

B_MAY_WASH_67

a 21 gun salute for a local woman who had committed her life to serving our country. central
valley high school graduate shianne soles was honored in a memorial in greenacres yesterday.
soles was on active duty-- based in virginia-- when she was killed in an apparent murder suicide
earlier this month. she was nineteen years old. another service member was also killed.
shianne's family, friends, and many community members gathered to remember her life,
express gratitude for her service, and to say goodbye.
88

KVAL (CBS)
May 19 • 9:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_87

tonight we are taking a look at suicide insight organ state prisons. there was an out of the
darkness walk, and it was held for three years in a row. >> making laps around the track at
santee and correctional institution, many carry a note saying who they are walking for. >> I
want them to know there is compassion and help out there, and they can talk about it. >> on
saturday his son walked with him, side-by-side. >> there's a bit of emotion involved, because I
know my son always has my back. and my children support me. no matter what i've done in the
past. >> like many, he has friends who died by suicide, and he attempted it, too. but today was
about hope, knowing there is always someone to talk to. >> I just want to create awareness,
and some kind of foundation, so my children have a place to go if they need help. >> angela
perez, lost a close friend growing up. >>has the misconception that these guys are tough, but if
you look around, you will see us all standing together, behind this cause. >> I’m really honored
to be here today. >> it's a big deal, because I was trying to be tough, and you can't be tough and
try killing yourself at the same time. >> they spearheaded this walk three years ago, and they
hope it will spread to other facilities and other states. since ham is leading the pack. >> the real
conversations, the ones that are hard to have, you have to have them, and it can be the
difference between life and death for some people. >> remember the national suicide
prevention lifeline is available anytime you or someone you know wants to speak with
someone about mental health. the number is one 802 73 talk.>
KEPR (CBS)
May 19 • 9:30 PM

B_MAY_WASH_68

thanks for joining us tonight. authorities say the body found in the yakima river hasbee
identified as 29-year-old ryan chapman. investigators believe this was a possible suicide. the
official cause of death will be determined by autopsy. the next of kin has been notified.
kayakers made the discovery was made saturday at noon by a person in a kayak near the
bypass highway and the new duportail bridge. >>> the number for the national suicide
prevention hotline is there on the screen if you or a loved one needs it.
KVAL (CBS)
May 20 • 3:03 PM

B_MAY_OREG_88

The first person in the nation to hold and out of the dark darkness walk. an awareness
campaign that shines a light inside the suicide in prison. >>> making laps around the track at the
correctional institution many folks carried a note to say who they are walking for for jimmy
harry guess it's his sons. >> I want them to know that there's compassion and help and they can
talk about it. >> he is in custody's, is saturday, his son walked with him side-by-side and one of
dozens of visitors. >> there's a bit of emotion involved. my sons always have my back my
children they support me. the matter what i've done in the past >> he has friends who died by
suicide, he attempted it to. today is about hope knowing there's always someone to talk to. >> I
just want to create awareness and some kind of foundation so that my children can have a
89

place to go if they need help. angel perez also in custody lost a friend growing up. >> if you look
around you will see all of us standing together behind these costs. >> I am honored today to be
here today. he shared his battle with suicidal thoughts. I w trying to be tough. you can be tough
and if you want to kill yourself at the same can >> the american foundation - - 3 years ago, they
are leaders who it spreads to other facilities. other states they say - - is leading the pack. >> the
real conversations that are hard to our can be awkward. you have to have done. it can be the
difference between life and death for some people >> there was keenan Thomas reporting. >>
prevention line is available anytime if you or someone you know wants to speak with someone
about mental health the number is on the screen, one 800 273 talk.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 20 • 3:38 PM

B_MAY_WASH_69

after friday's incident at parker's high school my friend john carlson our affiliate station ktvi and
seattle did an interview with the administrator for the toppenish school john cerna what cerna
has done it took a long time to get it done was set up a program where certain administrators
are trained and allowed to carry a gun I imagine how that might have changed the situation had
park crews gone differently if you had the same kind of program there unfortunately both
Oregon washington admitted very very difficult to try to equal the playing field level the playing
field so that when somebody comes to school with a gun whether it's an adult or child the there
has to be something level things up and serna is certainly aware of the fact it takes often times
12 to 14 minutes for the police to be on scene and those 12 to 14 minutes a lot of bad things
can happen I thought i'd play a little slice of john's interview john carlson's interviewed john
cerna from the toppenish schools about the thinking goes in behind that program so tell me
about the plan itself how it works because the looks kinda to me like a school equivalent of the
air marshal program what we have we have we have the money never building and some don't
have multiple people and nobody knows who they are the cut me nervous of uncaring course
but then no one cared district they can zone because we've ever been and I think he'll so think
about that and and in the national the national average of of of when the respond to that I’m
and the national committee when one of the president arrived someone shooting breaks out it
takes about 12 to 14 minutes before the police show up okay right on the national average all
our building is something like that could happen it would be the second amendment the second
was there with the president because then everyone our buildings and ended given more for
our made I don't know if with the eu if it if you could always print and then but we could
advance at fidelity I know that at this point which many we've had we've been doing it for and
1014 won't start period hoggle stroll garden we've been doing it and we've been highly trained
we trained on a record pace truth or twice a month and we have china in the stomach the time
ever every day really important that all credit goes to them not ads in the toppenish schools as
part of john carlson's interview with the administrator who also as you mentioned carry a gun
now it's been going on for 5 years now no problems and if anybody says well but how many
shootings have you prevent it you don't know how many you prevent but i'll tell you this do you
think that young man or an adult is likely to go to a school where they don't know where the
armed personnel are it provides an effective deterrent so you don't have the incident began
when it makes a lot sense and I applaud the toppenish school from being willing to do
90

something like that where's the bigger cities in northwest of also don't know we don't like guns
we want to make sure the school campuses are gun-free didn't own a gun free zone is for
somebody who's a murderer for somebody who's intending to take her own life sure suicide by
cop it's free fire zone unfortunately and why the politicians don't realize this and insist that
change I don't know let's go to your calls now go first to jacob you jane they geico welcome the
lars larson showing monday and radio northwest network what's on your mind I saw them in
the beginning them earlier you talked about mandatory reporting yeah I completely agree with
you the fed district should have made people aware what was going on I’m I have someone
who is a mandatory reporter from what I understand being a mentor reporter you have to
report thing you have evidence that is actively happening so group of being or peeping abuse
toward someone else or some wood dock of suicidal ideation no it mr. haircut happened to
valuation and said peter thought that I wrote from what I understand they're doing some
important to fit in better health professor all got the ball to report it to either of the dhs sports
law enforcement now let me ask you i've read the statutes true you tell me if I’m wrong about
this if you even suspected that something is going on for example there's a great example
involving a killer about an emmy award weaver and two little girls ashley upon miranda ghattas
who died and day their teachers suspected that they were being abused and their report was
ignored by the state and the statute only said you have two suspected going on you don't have
to know it just have to say I think this child is being physically abused right thing this child is and
sexually abused you only have two suspected so if they suspected that ángel di was suicidal day
it happened there's no way for anyone to interpret whether somebody has a current suicidal
ideation that is the thoughts are going through your head right now without sitting down and
doing some kind of stuff exam nowhere you would interview the person and have trained
psychologist speak to them even then I don't know anybody would claim that's 100% but if the
word was going around the school that this young man was unhappy perhaps about a breakup
with the girl and he might be planning to do something neither take his own life for take other
lives coming to the school the shotguns seems like a good indication of that should that have
been reported to law enforcement okay and because if you said well no reported to the health
of the unit to the mental health people well when when somebody may be about to do
something violent involving a weapon either hurt themselves or others you know that even in
hurting himself he could have put others at risk if that's all he was planning to do we don't
know what he was playing do we may never know what he was planning to do but should they
have called the police and said we've got a kid here who's potentially suicidal you think the
police would have said will then make sure the kid does not come into the school I i agree but I
also think that maybe if they had tried to get help for mental health professional involved with
all 50 going around the floor I mean obviously people where their situation you it could have
been prevented through him talking to a therapist sara psychologist or someone for the district
it mental health maybe but you know what I’m most concerned about I don't know that you
can necessarily always stop someone from hurting himself but my concern that point is to try to
help him save his own life but most importantly to save all lives around him.

91

KING-SEA (NBC)
May 20 • 7:03 PM

B_MAY_WASH_70

In our closer look today, some key takeaways related to kids, teens, and mental health. in
washington we know suicide is the leading cause of death for kids ages 10 to 14 and the second
most common cause among teenagers and young adults. so how do we stop this trend is the
million-dollar question experts are grappling with. I talked with a doctor who serves as director
of the mood disorder center at the child mind institute in new york. she says it's normal for
tweens and teens to have ups and downs. if a child is different for a two-week period, get help.
it all starts by having a conversation. >> there's such a big myth out there that talking about
suicide causes suicide. it's just simply not the case most of the time. you want to be table talk to
your child openly about these topics so you can assess whether or not they need some
assistance. avoiding the topic because you're afraid it's going to trigger them can lead to more
difficulty and the problem remains unaddressed. >> so when do you have this conversation?
how? well, believe it or not, she's seeing kids as young as 6 have suicidal thoughts. she says to
start listening as early as elementary school. I purposely used the word listening because we
usually say talking. it's a reminder. keep it general. what do they know about it? have they
thought about it? when they're older talk in more detail. the most important tool parents have
is to know what their child is thinking and feeling. and then the final tip, you know, when you
need help, go to your pediatrician first. they have access to resources. and tonight that nbc
news special I was talking about. kids under pressure debuts this evening highlighting the issues
surrounding children and mental health. such a need series right now. we need to get to the
bottom of this. >> I can't believe you said kids at the age of 6 are having these thoughts. how
does it start at 6 years old? >> you'll get to sort of meet virtually one of the people tomorrow.
the story I’m going to present to you tomorrow based on the trail youth coffee shop we
featured in north bebld. they started a podcast and that is their first topic on suicide.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
May 20 • 7:20 PM

B_MAY_WASH_71

when you have a woman like this and the police can calm because understaffing or because
they're so burdened with a lot of things going on in in mean in in the entire area with the
opener drug-dealing cetera I I would have lied she has a baby stroller event then you know
what danny about this that's a great idea I know that you're lying to of we saw out I know and
that you katie maybe all and when asked where these folks felt really uncomfortable because
they wanted to pull the keys that were waiting for the police the 9.1 operator to tell them like
pull the key out and walk away or do something and they just they didn't mean what to do I
would take the keys know I understand because if you're an officer on the phone you don't
want to give that direction not knowing what she's under the influence of she did then hopped
up on meth in turn into a hole dag gone in there I like they're also not peace officers on the
phone right Yeah that that makes it that's why they really really hesitant to after giving a sort of
those directions as well the police said so on they S pd I talked to some with time and he says
they were prioritizing two suicides and burglary I the key right call I was describing very key why
driver or a lollipop on the cars we don't want to drive away now about is certainly out of a
92

catch-all you need life and death situation but at that moment it is not at that moment when
someone tried to commit suicide and that is more likely to result of the law but why have okay
I’m missing something incredibly cold loss of their life this one could take other people's lives
we're not choosing to commit suicide and trust me we've dealt with people who you want
cases that was happening what they want done I don't see a single sound patrol don't I don't
see anybody out patrolling West Seattle up for telltale white noise tailpipe don't knock off safe
it's safe it doesn't seem like a terribly plausible response honestly from Shawn johnson great
about this kind of stuff but it seems I mean I get it two suicides they are important the police
need to be that is not everyone is going to commit suicide the fashion it's only going to harm
the rights I want to do right but but it's still a burglary it still does not in the city this big that
somebody from another division could not have been 40 minutes made it over there and
actually given some form of guidance to these folks or at least grabbed the keys and arrested
this person and we don't even know whether or not it was diy because sometimes what will
happen is someone will having diabetic episode and it really really can resemble that especially
when it's that day unless they should not be driving and this is what lends credibility.
KEZI (ABC)
May 20 • 7:40 PM

B_MAY_OREG_89

a troubling study was just released by the journal of the american medical association revealing
that the suicide rate for young girls is on the rise... and has been for the last decade. today kezi
9 news reporter emma jerome met with the executive director of Oregon community programs
to gain some insight of why this is... and how we can tackle this problem here in lane county.
emma jerome: "ana day with Oregon community programs says the intervention point for kids
in these crisis situations is a parent and that open communication is really what matters." ana
day: ""the ship has sailed, the toothpaste is out of the tube on social media as a means of
connections for our kids, it's happening, it's part of their life, it will continue to be part of their
life." since 2007... the suicide rate for girls ages 10-14 has increased 12 percent every year. this
rate is quickly closing the gender gap between that of girls and boys and it's causing real
concerns for parents... and local outreach groups. she says there are some good things about it
such as a community kids might find that is bigger than the one they have in their day to day&
however she says limits are what are important ad: " "many parents of kids who are in that 1014 age range, myself included, did not grow up with cell phones and social media so we don't
necessarily understand the impact it has for kids on the level of connection." ej: "at 5 hear from
a director of suicide prevention for the county and see what he has to say about where we're
lacking. in eugene emma jerome kezi 9 news.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 20 • 8:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_90

moments a, we got the first lack at the suspect the scare. he appeared in a downtown Portland
courtroom. fox 12's kelsey watts was there. reporter: well, meaned on friday was suicide
attempt. what we still don't know is whether he planned to hurt anyone else. reporter: on his
16th birthday, angel grad in a tow diaz walked into the courtroom suicide prevention vest and
93

on suicide watch at the jail after police say he walked into a classroom at the high school pray
day armed with a loaded shotgun. according to the da's spis, he allegedly tried to fire that gun.
but he was tackled to the ground and nobody was hurt. he spoke with the defense attorney
through a glass wall in the courtroom at times nodding his head but never making any public
statements his attorney pointed out, he has no prior criminal history. >> gill tism? reporter: on
friday, a judge ordered the bail raised to half million. in court monday, a second judge upheld
that order but if he does bail out for any reason, prosecutors asked for limits on what he could
do and we are can go. >> I asked for conditions including use of possession of weapons or
ammunition as well as no presence at the high school. reporter: prosecutors also asked that he
not be allowed within 1,000 feet of the school but he lives right across the street from park rose
high. the building he is accused of enter with a shotgun can be ven the house, so if he does bail
out, its not clear whether he would be allowed to go home. at the end of the appearace, he
appeared to nod to his family who were sitting in the back row leaving the courthouse they told
fox 12 they have nothing to say right now. now if he is indicted by grand jury, he will be back in
court in over week on may 29th. in the mean I am, the park rose school district is hosting a
forum for families and staff members. that well be tomorrow night at 6:00 in the high school
auditorium. they say it will focus on how the school district is supporting students at school and
how families can support their kids at home. reporting live in downtown portland, kelsey watts,
"fox 12 oregon."
KNDO (NBC)
May 20 • 8:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_72

new information on the body found by kayakers in the yakima river along duportail bridge
saturday afternoon. benton county sheriff's deputies have identified the man as 29-year-old
ryan chapman. investigators believe this was a possible suicide. deputies were called out to that
area of the river friday to investigate a report of a man acting strangely, but it wasn't clear if
that was related to the death the official cause of death will be determined by autopsy. next
ofineen notified. and please remember -- there is help available 24-seven. if you or someone
you know needs someone to talk to, you can always call the national suicide prevention lifeline.
that number is on your screen, it's... 800-273- 8255. you can also text 7-4- 1-7-4-1.
KXLY (ABC)
May 20 • 8:10 PM

B_MAY_WASH_73

we are here at spokane valley about 15 minutes away from the start of that meeting...which
promises to give people a chance to talk about their ideas and concerns for the spokane county
jail with the vera institute of justice -- and the spokane regional law and justice administrator.
the jail has come under scrunity in recent months -- first, from a nationally recognized expert
on jail suicide prevention....who said the spokane county jail could be doing more to prevent
inmate suicides --with more staff training, changes to the intake screening process and
more...the jail has even drawn criticism from spokane county sheriff ozzie knezovich --who says
the jail has grown so overcrowded --it's turned into a revolving door --where some criminals are
booked and released just a few days later...putting the community at risk.
94

KEZI (ABC)
May 20 • 8:57 PM

B_MAY_OREG_91

more teenage girls are dying by suicide.. and it's left parents, health and school officials
scrambling to find out why...and how they can stop it. students returned to class in parkrose
high school today...still shaken after one student allegedly brought a gun to campus. and... the
fate of extended tailgating outside autzen stadium in eugene is up for review. how you can
have your say... kezi 9 news at six starts now. announcer says, "live local late breaking, this is
kezi 9 news at 6" a troubling new study shows that young girls are increasingly likely to commit
suicide... leaving many to wonder why. and what can be done about it. thanks for joining us. I’m
renee mccullough. I’m matt templeman. kezi 9 news reporter emma jerome spoke with mental
health officials who gave insight as to why... and how to intervene before your child reaches a
crisis situation. ana day: " "many parents of kids who are in that 10-14 age range, myself
included, did not grow up with cellphones and social media so we don't necessarily understand
the impact it has for kids on the level of connection." ana day with Oregon community
programs says the intervention point for kids in these crisis situations is a parent and that open
communication is really what matters. emma jerome: "our girls are in crisis. and not just in lane
county. nationally the suicide rate for girls 10 to 14 has gone up 12 percent every year from
2007 to 2016." but there's not just one reason for that& and roger brubaker, suicide prevention
coordinator, for lane county public health says trying to pinpoint one reason does more harm
than good rb: "it's not about removing social media, but making sure it's healthy." he also says
that Oregon schools are for the most part lacking adequate behavioral and mental health
support for kids. ... and both brubaker and day say social media is no longer a source of "fake"
community for kids. ana day: ""the ship has sailed, the toothpaste is out of the tube on social
media as a means of connections for our kids, it's happening, it's part of their life, it will
continue to be part of their life." rb: "online communities do create connections and
connections save lives" but they also both add that education and intervention are lifesaving
when it comes to the health of your child... and that the open communication can save lives.
KEPR (CBS)
May 20 • 9:07 PM

B_MAY_WASH_74

a group of veterans at columbia basin college are >>> just celebrating veterans who either lost
their lives in combat or died by suicide after returning home. members of the Columbia basin
college are celeb warrior their lives in combat or died by nine thousand flag home. members
represent Washington’s sons and scholars placed over 9000 ultimate sacrifice to our country. "
a lot of us carry to represent the sons and the scars daughters who paid the ultimate sacrifice
for those that we've lt ot to mention the free lot of us carry the scars today are because the
burdens of those and lost. not to mention sacrificed have today are because freedoms that we
men ability to live in this great country and to go selflessly sacrif freely. " for our freedoms and
for us to live in this great scholars will be go to school veterans with a >> the cbc warrior
scholars will honor campus thursday morning. ceremony on campus we invite you to check out
our website ... kepr- morning.>>> any time of the day check out our website www.keprtv.com
here are some of the stories that day or night. here are some of our top trending that are
95

trending on our ... right now. >>> our top found in the yakima river in richland over the
weekend has been identified as 29 year-old authorities say the body found ryan chapman.right
now ... over the weekend authorities identified as 29-year-old ryan chapman. is a tragic suicide.
authorities believe the will is a cause of death.the benton an autopsy will county coroner
official cause news it's scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. the benton county made the disco
action news at scheduled for near tomorrow afternoon. kayakers made the discovery the
saturday near the bypass highway and the new number for the national suicide prevention
hotline is there on your screen bridge. a l the number for the national suicide prevention
hotline is right there on the bottom of your screen.
KMTR (NBC)
May 20 • 9:12 PM

B_MAY_OREG_92

all week nbc news is looking at serious issues surrounding our children and mental health.
tonight, the alarming rise in suicide among kids and teens causing one principal to take matters
into his own hands and now he's helping kid s here is kristen dahlgren in our across the country.
series "kids under pressure." >> reporter: in high schools across the country, a crisis. >> who
here knows somebody personally whose contemplated suicide? wow. every single one of you.
>> reporter: suicide now the second leading cause of death between the ages of 10 and 18. for
utah principal dr. greg hudnel, it's more than statistics after he was called to identify the body
of one of his 14-year-old students. >> I literally threw up and sobbed. I made a vow I would do
everything I could to prevent suicide. >> reporter: he founded hope squad, a way to help kids
change how they talk about mental illness. >> those young people feel like they're the only one,
that they're embarrassed and struggling. >> reporter: the program gives students the tools to
recognize those in need and get them help. >> I don't think most people understand that
people do say that they are going to commit suicide most of the time before they do. >>
reporter: there are now more than 500 squads across 18 states and canada. another 100 will
begin next year. >> we're having this connection, we're having this relationship now, and I care
about you. >> reporter: students are chosen by their peers and specially trained meeting
regularly. this is hope squad's first year in mason, ohio and the first year without a suicide since
abby gateo started at the school four years ago. do you think hope squad saved lives this year?
>> for sure. I think that because of hope squad, we get it, we get to the students early enough.
>> that stigma is breaking down. students are willing to accept help. >> reporter: fifth grader
valerie govar recently spoke up when she saw a friend was cutting herself. >> she told me about
it and said don't tell anyone, and my immediate reaction was to go straight to a hope squad
adviser or adult. >> a move that may have made all the difference for that student and her
peers. >> the best part about hope squad is just knowing that you're able to help. >> reporter:
help and hope at a time they need it most. kristen dahlgren, NBC news, mason, ohio. >> if you
or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts please call the suicide prevention
lifeline at 800-273-8255. it's available 24 hours a day.
KFXO (FOX)
May 21 • 1:05 AM

B_MAY_OREG_93

96

there's a mission to let young people know there's always help, and hope this, as an alarming
rise in suicides among kids and teens continue nbc's kristen dahlgren reports. ### in high
schools across t country, a crisis. kd: how many of you know someo who has considered suicide
all raise hands kd: wow every single one of you suicide, now the second leading cause of death
between the ages of 10 and 18. for utah principal, dr. greg hudnall it's more than statistics ....
after he was called to identify the body of one of his 14 year old students dr. greg hudnall I
literally threw up and sobbed. , I made a vow that I would do everything that I i could to help
prevent suicide he founded hope squad... a way to help kids change how they talk about menta
illness. 00043426 dr. greg hudnall those young people feel like they're the only one. they'r
embarrassed. they're struggling. the program gives students the tools to recognize those in
needt th help. jack: I don't thin that-- most peop the idea is taking off - there are more than 500
squads across 18 states and Canada.. another 100 will begin nex year nat: tbd students are
chosen by their peers and specially trained - meeting regularl this is hope squad's first year in
mason ohio... and the first year without suicide since abby gatio start at the school four years
ago dahlgren: do you think hop squad has saved lives this yea abby gatio: for sure.i think that
because of hope squad, we get-- we get to those students early enou jennifer/ hope squad that
stigma is breaking down. students are willing to accept help. fifth grader valorie golavar
recently spoke up when she saw a friend was cutting herself. she told me about it and said,
"don't tell anyone." and my immediate reaction was a move that may have made all the
difference.. for that student and he peers... the best thing about hope squad is just knowing
that you're able to-- to-- help peop protective last line help... a hope at a time they need it mo
kristen dahlgren nbc news maso oh ### there are several resources fo kids 'and adults'
struggling I central oregon. for a full lis of links and pho numbers, head to ktvz dot com and click
'let's talk' under the communit tab.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 21 • 2:10 AM

B_MAY_OREG_94

suicide rates are rising and that's according to a new study. historically more teenage boys
complete suicides girls are quickly picking up. this focuses on girls and boys ages 10 to 14? >>
reporter: yes. kids usually act on impulse. if you have a place to lock up your firearm or
medicine those feelings of suicide and thoughts of suicide may just pass. kids have a lot more to
worry about than homework these days. 15-year-old jayden smith says depression is one of the
biggest concerns in his high school. >> I have a few friends who try and hide it and don't want
to address it themselves. >> reporter: he said two classmates took their lives last year, and he
has friends dealing with depression right now. >> I know a girl who is having a hard time
managing it. she pushes me away sometimes. >> reporter: a new study in the journal of
american medical association reports over 40 years the rates of suicide for girls ages 10 to 14
increased about 13% compared to the 7% in boys the same age. >> girls do appear based on
research to have more negative consequences from bullying and cyberbullying. that's a major
stressor for kids this age. >> the professor who studies child adolescent psychology says girls
suffer depression and anxiety at a higher rate than boys. he adds that kids are using social
media at a younger age and that can be a contributing factor. what made a difference with his
friends is having someone reach out. >> your friends can benefit more than you actually think.
97

usually when they know they are much more understanding than you think. >> reporter: they
say signs to look out for are anger irritability and isolation can point to depression. catherine
van, katu news. >> deb: experts say most mental health crisis are temporary and will pass. if
you need someone to talk to call the national lifeline at 1-800-273-talk to get connected with
someone who can help. you can text home, 271-471 or suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KDRV (ABC)
May 21 • 2:10 AM

B_MAY_OREG_95

a troubling study was recently released by the journal of the american medical association. it
shows that the suicide rate for young girls is on the rise ... and has beehe last decade. since
2007... the suicide rate for girls ages 10-14 has increased 12 percent every year. this rate is
quickly closing the gender gap between that of girls and boys. it's causing real concerns for
parents. ana day is with Oregon community programs. she says open communication is what
really matters. "many parents of kids who are in that 10-14 age range, impact it has for kids on
the level of connection." you're seeing the number for the national suicide prevention lifeline
on your screen right now. they offer lots of tools and resources for people struggling with
suicide.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 21 • 8:37 AM

B_MAY_WASH_75

victims, family members and first responders lit this structure on fire and thousands gathered
to watch. it is the location of the marjory stoneman douglas high school shootings. >>> photos
of therapy dogs are part of the yearbook at marjory stoneman douglas high school. these
animals have provided comfort and support for students and staff as they deal with this
tragedy. >>> as part of our mental health special, we explained to why parents are part of the
problem. >> we have the death here by suicide. there 91 candles hit candles here representing
the kids that died from suicide. kids are under a lot of pressure and as parents we might be to
blame. there is parental pressure. parents of high achieving students play a detrimental role by
pressuring their children to achieve at unrealistically high levels. we are also dealing with
unrealistic praise. parents are not giving labels to their kids that there is. that that may be
setting them up for failure. it is important to have them cut down on afterschool activities. and
leaving them more time to finish homework. limit technology. also, ask for help. you can ask for
insight from a school counselor, pediatrician or therapist. technology and social media can be a
huge issue. this week we will dive into these issues. but before we go I want to give you some
things to look for. somebody that is actively looking for a way to do it. somebody that has
hinted at it or somebody that may be just drawing. remember, if you are anyone needs help,
just text 741741 that is a national suicide hotline.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 21 • 9:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_76

98

a study in the Journal of the American medical Association in fines suicide rates among pre-teen
girls are rising details from KOMO Carling johnson no surprise here social media influences
bullying to love the colt bred they cite for while lot of teens struggle with depression and
anxiety which can lead to suicide thoughts but even children as young as 10 are having these
thoughts and more of them are following through taken their lives it's preaching girls with a
13% increase going back over last 40 years 15 year-old Jaiden Smith a sophomore at sky high
school In Vancouver lost two friends to suicide last year his freshman year in high school he
knows a lot of his friends battle depression I have a few friends who are trying to hide it from
one adolescent psychologist away just uses kids using social media at younger ages is a
contributing factor younger kids often act on impulse another recent study in the Journal
hospital Pediatrics screamed 10 to 12 year-olds who came into the E.R. at 3 major hospital and
found 30% of those preaching patience screen positive for suicide risk nearly 18% had
attempted suicide some assigned to watch for isolation anger anxiety and continuing sadness.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 21 • 9:31 AM

B_MAY_OREG_96

an alarming new studied in the northwest. not only are teen suicide rates going up but they're
going up faster among girls than boys. the study is from the american journal medical
association. experts found the rates of suicide for girls increased about 13 percent. jaden smith
is a sophomore. two of his classmates committed suicide. >> they start pushing you away,
hanging out with groups of bad people. >>> girls suffer from depression and anxiety at a higher
rate hand boys. social media can also be a factor. if you know or someone you know is having a
mental health crisis you're not alone, call the national lifeline to get connected with someone
who can help. you can also text 741741 or chat live with an expert.
KEZI (ABC)
May 21 • 9:41 AM

B_MAY_OREG_97

suicide rates for young girls are on the rise in america...and lane county is no exception. a
troubling new study shows young girls are increasingly likely to commit suicide. rb: "it's not
about removing social media but making sure it's healthy." anna day with Oregon community
programs says the intervention point for kids in these crisis situations is a parent.... and that
open communication is really what matters. roger bru-baker, suicide prevention coordinator,
for lane county public health told us that Oregon schools are for the most part lacking adequate
behavioral and mental health support for kids.
KMTR (NBC)
May 21 • 9:46 AM

B_MAY_OREG_98

reporter: a new study in the journal of american medical association reports over 40 years, the
rates of suicide for girls 10 to 14 increased about 14%, compared to the 7% of the same age. >>
and they do, appear to have more negative consequences from bullying and cyberbullying. that
is a major stressor. >> reporter: the progressor who studies child adolescence seated girls suffer
99

anxiety and what made a difference with the friends, having someone reach out. >> the friends
can benefit more than you think, come is you know, usually when they know they're going new
that. much more understanding than you think.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 21 • 9:47 AM

B_MAY_WASH_77

it is mental health awareness month. king5 and nbc news are looking at kids under pressure.
amity addrisi shares a surprising twist with us that parents are often part of the problem. >>
suicide is one of those things that many parents fear. so here are 91 candles. these represent
91 children under the age of 18 that lost their live to death by suicide just last year alone. what
is causing an increase in suicide in young people? a recent study shows that kids are under
more pressure than ever before. and there are a few things that we are guilty of as spirits. first
of all,parental pressure. so the john hopkins center for high achieving youth say that parents
cause problems by demanding unrealistic performance. and then unrealistic praise like to think
that they are the smartest kid in their grade for example. cutting down is key. choosing less
afterschool activities so that kids have time for homework and family time. also, limiting
technology is a good thing to do. also, ask for help or insight from a school counselor,
pediatrician or therapist. we will be diving into these issues all week long. and I just want to say,
if you or anyone you know are having thoughts of suicide, please reach out. call the national
suicide prevention hotline or you can text the word heal to 741741.
KNDO (NBC)
May 21 • 9:47 AM

B_MAY_WASH_78

may is mental health awareness month and stephanie muniz is looking at the impact this is
having on kids. hope squad is one of many organizations teaching young kids how to spot
trouble signs among their peers. it was founded by a utah principal after being called to identify
the body of a 14-year-old student who took his own life. the c-d-c says suicide is the second
leading cause of death for people 10 to 24 years old. hope squad aims to teach kids how to
handle a situation if it comes up.. one fifth grader did the right thing after hearing a troubled
peer. don't tell anyone and my immediate reaction was to go straight to a hope squad advisor
or an adult. the best thing about hope squad is just knowing that you're able to-- to-- help
people. there are more than 500 hope squads in 17 states two of those are in washington.
comprehensive health locallly in yakima has their own mental health services for both kids and
adults. in tri-cities initiatives by tri-cities initiative health also have programs that help kids,
teens and adult. it is important if you or someone you know needs help call the suicide
prevention line at 1-800-273-8255.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 21 • 10:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_79

A lot of attention has been paid in recent years to an alarming increase increasing teenage
suicide but a new study suggests pre-teens are also dealing with depression with far too many
100

taking their own lives or from coal most Carling jobs 15 year-old Jaiden Smith is the South more
sky view high school in Vancouver he's already lost two friends to suicide the with no she's not
me changing it plans to use to kind of push the ways sometimes depression anxiety isolation
knowledge dangerously high rates and young people as young as 10 new study published in the
Journal of the American medical Association report suicide rates in girls between 10 and 14 has
increased by nearly 13% after Kyle Johnson a professor at Oregon Health sciences University
and adolescents like poetry girls do this it appears based on research have more negative
consequences problem from bullying and cyber Social media both a stressor and potential life
saver often times young people having suicidal thoughts will reach out perhaps Post something
concerning and when others respond taking it seriously wives can be saved.
KONG-SEA
May 21 • 11:18 AM

B_MAY_WASH_80

as part of mental health awareness month king 5 and nbc are teaming up on a series looking at
kids and pressure. amity addrisi joins us. parents could be partly to blame for that pressure that
kids are feeling. >> reporter: what is so ironic is that suicide is what we all fear. we laid out 91
panels candles this morning to show the 91 lives that were lost to suicide just last year in
washington state. 91 children under the age of 19 took the lives. recently the journal of
american medicine released statistics showing that suicide rates are on the rise. it is due to kids
been under pressure. as parents need to be more vigilant than ever. we are guilty of a few
things. first and foremost. pressure. john hopkins center for talented youth said parents of high
achieving students play a detrimental will roll by pressuring the student to achieve at
unrealistically high levels. unrealistic praise is also a problem. parents are giving labels to their
kids that they cannot live up to saying things like you are the smartest kid in the grade, you are
the best dancer in the class. sometimes that is not the case and the kids struggled to cope. first
and foremost, we can connect. not just with our kids but with other parents and teachers who
might have vital observations. also cutting down on afterschool activities can be key so that kids
have more time for their homework and family time. also limit technology. just unplug once in a
while. take the phones and tablets away. ask for help. do not be shy. ask for help from the
school counselor or pediatrician or therapist. we will be diving into these issues this week along
with the today show and nightly news. we are committed to talking about this. >>> look for
signs of somebody that is actively talking about suicide or actively looking for ways to kill
oneself even hinting at it. you can call the national suicide prevention hotline or text the word
"heal" to 741741
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 21 • 12:35 PM

B_MAY_WASH_81

A lot of attention been paid in recent years to an alarming increase in teen suicide of a new
study suggests pre-teens are also dealing with depression with far too many taking their own
lives as we hear and co-host calling Johnson 18 year-old Jaiden Smith is a sophomore at sky
view high school in Vancouver he's already lost two friends to suicide the with no it is not me
changing hands so you can kind of pushed anyways sometimes depression anxiety isolation
101

knowledge dangerously high rates and young people as young as 10 under study published in
the Journal of the American medical Association report suicide rates in girls between 10 and 14
has increased by nearly 13% after Kyle Johnson a professor at Oregon Health sciences
University and adolescent psychiatry girls do this it appears based on research have more
negative consequences from bullying and cyber bullying and social media both a stressor and
potential life saver often time young people having suicidal thoughts will reach out perhaps
Post something concerning and when others respond taking it seriously lives can be saved
carlene johnson KOMO News.
FM News 101 KXL
May 21 • 4:06 PM

B_MAY_OREG_99

want to mention something have a bill that has been a little bit of a sleeper in the legislature
until they got the big tax increase passed that's what the democrats cared most about I made
today's twitter poll and here's why I put it should we make it easier for the dangerously
mentally ill the be forced into treatment now if you haven't had any direct experience of this
throughout family member or friend you might be thinking alarm of course we should already
be able to do that should point any injuries now we're not in fact I don't have them today I
hope to get him on the show in the rest of this week preps next week chris bosh have who lives
with mental illness but he heads the Oregon branch of the national associate alliance on mental
illness said association earlier it's the national alliance on mental illness known as many but he's
quoted than a story about this senate bill 7 _sixty_ _three_ which I thought was entirely an
appropriate changed make and here's what he says he says that there've been so many court
decisions and here's the way they come about somebody is living on the streets in many cases
they may be homeless because the air mental illness has made them so unwelcome they no
longer have family or friends who were willing to take the mantle they may also be that they
have chosen not to live with family and friends and because their mental illness they have the
ability to earn a living there nothing come to be able to afford their own place left so they end
up living on the street its and here's what he says he's quote bio pb says he understands the
reluctance of civil commitment civil commitments have been appealed in court so many times
the legal standard has gradually become harder and harder to meet for example he says one
threat of suicide is no longer enough to prove that you are a danger to yourself I or others I
think about that for a moment you said I’m going to go kill myself and judges asked is that
enough we should block this person up and give them some treatment do something
compassionate for them the answer is no not a single threat of suicide and any perceived
danger now has to meet this standard highly probable not just likely so as you're walking down
the street and if you watch the documentary that aired johnson did so good from komo-tv
called seattle is dying if you watched any of the news coverage of the mentally ill who live on
the streets of Portland or seattle or the tri-cities eugene spokane you've probably seen people
and if you've actually walk the streets of those cities I have all the spokane tri-cities seattle
Portland eugene almost every time I go to any city of any size even banned or medford
although there are fewer of the so-called homeless there you see people and you look at them
you think based on the person's behavior based on the way they presented themselves
somebody who was sitting in a tent on the side of the road apparently without resources in the
102

rain in the whether anything that person and and especially when you watch their behavior the
way they interact with people if they're constantly harassing people and you think one of these
days that person is probably going to hurt somebody or hurt himself at this is what chris bonner
said we reached a point where the bar is so high that really the only way to ensure the state
mental hospital is to be arrested and we find that to be unacceptable I would agree with him
it's unacceptable you have to wait till somebody actually commits a crime before it makes
sense to lock them up not only for other people's safety but for their safety as well and what
bana says is senate bills 7 _sixty_ _three_ would dre deep criminal lies mental illness and calls it
a minimal fix the bill would define dangerous to self or others as likely to inflict serious harm
within the next 30 days the bill also dictates that one threat of suicide can now be considered
by judge now clearly I know there are people who threatened to commit suicide and you
wouldn't say what every single one of those people should be locked up but a judge's job is to
look at the totality of the circumstances nothing judges presented with a case where you say
this person man or woman is living on the streets has been living on the streets for months or
even years is addicted to drugs is behaving away that is dangerous is likely to be dangerous to
himself or others do you think it's a compassionate to say well they have a civil right to live
anyway they lied and told actually heard somebody learn told hurt somebody else it is always
confounded me believe me this is probably the hundreds time that i've talked about this over
the last 20 years that if you have a person in those circumstances doesn't sound come
passionate to say well we should just let them keep running around on their own and putting
themselves in danger and putting others in danger until they actually do something and then at
that point will lock them up but not for very long that doesn't make sense to me.
FM News 101 KXL
May 21 • 4:46 PM

B_MAY_OREG_100

the national alliance from mental illness he says the current standard is you have to prove that
person is dangerous to himself for others right now immediately the end and he wants the
standard to be something more along the lines of this person is likely to be a danger to himself
or others within say the next 30 days which is much more generous standard now doesn't have
civil rights implications absolutely because I don't want to see the government just locking
people up against a well but when he walked the streets of can work pasco richland in the tricities where you live you see people on the streets look like they need some help am fidel yeah
and you can't do anything act so the individual who he had he had attended any kind she cared
mental health treatment he was the old boat and me struggling and I haven't ahead if they ever
had the bed I have in the bank he was suicidal I just can't give struggling whom he could get it
you get the help I even got a lot I it's a felony but they do have the real key just took his life I
think I’m sorry to hear that just recently so I think in I’m sorry amber and and unfortunately I
that the current state the way the courts have left it with all these court decisions that
supposedly to benefit the mentally ill by not having a civil rights infringed on basically say you
have some rights to be out there to you kill yourself and that's effectively with the courts said
yeah I think it's a terrible thing they do to these people amber thank you for calling I’m sorry for
the loss your friend.

103

KDRV (ABC)
May 21 • 8:05 PM

B_MAY_OREG_101

we're learning a middle school student in the medford school district committed suicide. the
district sent an email to parents at the school that's impacted. yesterday on newswatch 12 at 5- we broke down a new study that shows a spike in suicide rates among young girls over the last
decade. 60 for the coast and the mountains. tonight-- we're learning a middle school student in
the medford school district committed suicide. the district sent an email to parents at the
school that's impacted. yesterday on newswatch 12 at 5-- we broke down a new study that
shows a spike in suicide rates among young girls over the last decade. newswatch12's Cassidy
delamarter spent the day investigating what resources are available for those who need help.
she joins us live with how people can access those resources. the suicide prevention lifeline is a
great place to start getting resources. you can access them online or by phone and text
messaging. today I also sat down with the jackson county suicide prevention center. officials
there told me that last year jackson county actually had the highest number of suicides in
history. since then, teams are working throughout the community to change that. here's a list
of resources available throughout the county ... it includes support groups and other
informative sessions to educate the community on suicide prevention. there is also a 24-hour
hotline that people in crisis can call. I also spoke with the medford school district to find out
what exactly is available to students that need help. they told me that in the last two years they
actually launched a team of licensed counselors to support students. we know that it's
important to have people that are trained in this area to talk to kids and say if you're having
these feelings it's normal you're not alone we're here for you and let's work through this
together." schools also have a new step by step guide for staff to use when a crisis happens.
suicide prevention-live tag coming up at 6... hear from one mom who lost her daughter to
suicide in 2016... and what she wants parents to know now. in medford, cassidy delamarter,
newswatch12.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 21 • 8:25 PM

B_MAY_WASH_82

king 5 and nbc are reporting on the everyday pressure children face that too often leads to a
mental health emergency. >> we lit 91 candles in honor of the 91 young lives lost to death by
suicide in 2016 alone. suicide is the second leading cause of death in kids and teens in the
united states. studies suggest that kids are under more pressure than ever before. external
pressure from social media, where girls are more susceptible to bullying. even electronics offer
an unhealthy escape. kids avoid uncomfortable feelings by burying their thoughts in
entertainment on phones and tablets. not learning the skills to cope. kids are also feeling more
pressure to achieve in school, coupled with concerns about making a living when they grow up.
and that's not all. researchers say parents can often be to blame. the john hopkins center for
talented youth says parents of high-achieving students play a detrimental role by pressuring
their children to achieve. parents should be wary of unrealistic praise. first, connect. not just
with our kids but with parents and teachers. cut down on after-school activities so kids have
more time for homework and family time. limit technology and ask for help. do not be shy. ask
104

for insight from school counselors to nutritionists or therapists. some of the signs and
symptoms of suicide include someone talking about suicide actively. hooking for ways to kill
oneself. or even playing at the idea of suicide, saying things like I hope you miss me when I’m
gone. contact the national suicide prevention hotline. the numbers on your screen.
KOBI
May 21 • 8:28 PM

B_MAY_OREG_102

a medford middle school community is in mourning... after a young student died by suicide this
week. hedrick middle school notified parents of the tragedy yesterday afternoon - offering
services to anyone that may need it. in times of tragedy... jackson county mental health says it's
important that parents engage with their kids. check in with them, ask them how they're doing.
the county has counselors who bring discussions on suicide to middle school and high school
students... but experts say conversations at home with your children are just as important.
resources are available for young people in crisis... lines for life youthline -- a teen-to-teen crisis
and help line... is available 24/7. call 877-968-8491 or text teen-2-teen to 8-3-9-8-6-3.
KTVL (CBS)
May 21 • 8:40 PM

B_MAY_OREG_103

we turn now to the issue of gun safety. a new study says thousands of young lives could be
saved if adults took proper care of their weapons, and there is a growing movement to lock up
parents who don't lock up their guns. nikki battisteas >> the one thing that you don't get back
after you've lost a child is peace. >> reporter: kristin and mike song are still in disbelief that
their 15-year-old son, ethan, is gone. he accidentally shot himself last year when he was at a
friend's house playing with guns. >> they were stored in a cardboard box, along with the ammo.
there was a gun lock in there, but the keys were in there. >> reporter: the songs had no idea the
home had firearms, and they say careless gun storage cost their son his life. >> ethan pulled the
trigger, and he was shot in the head, so he really had no chance of survival. >> reporter: a
recent study by harvard researchers estimated up to 32% of youth firearm deaths by
unintentional injury and suicide could be prevented if guns were properly locked and stored
and ammunition is kept separately. only three states and washington, d.c. make unsafe storage,
regardless of whether a child ever touches the gun, a crime. there is no federal law for safe gun
storage... >> this war is killing our loved ones. >> reporter: ...but today the song family is
fighting for one in their son's name. "ethan's law," introduced to congress today, states that
unsafe storage of a firearm resulting in injury or death of a minor is a crime and punishable by
up to five years in prison. >> you want to keep the gun safe and secured. >> reporter: kevin
guarderas, the owner of long shot pistol and rifle, says security storage devices can keep guns
locked away. >> a code, and that will pop open, and they can reach in and take the gun. >>
reporter: yet accessed quickly. some opponents of safe storage laws say it's an infringement on
their freedom. >> I respect people's rights to own a gun. and I know that my son's dead now,
and I don't want that to happen to anyone else's son. so I think there are reasonable limitations
that we can talk about together and start a dialogue that could save thousands of lives. >>
reporter: in a statement to cbs news, the n.r.a. says there is no scientific evidence that
105

government-mandated, one-size- fits-all storage schemes reduce juvenile accidental firearm
deaths or suicides. but they say it could make it harder for law-abiding citizens to protect
themselves, major. >> garrett: nikki battiste, thanks so much.
KDRV (ABC)
May 21 • 9:20 PM

B_MAY_OREG_104

newswatch12's cassidy delamarter spoke with one mom who lost her own daughter to suicide
in 2016... cassidy, what is she hoping to share with parents? I’m here at griffin creek elementary
school...7 where every year a 5-k is held in honor of grace holt. a 15-year-old who took her life
in 20-16... grace's mom, susan, wants to educate people on suicide prevention and mental
illness. because she doesn't want parents to feel the same pain she does every day. susan says,
"and you know I i wish I could go back" susan holt's 15- year-old daughter, grace, took her own
life in 20-16. susan says, "i just couldn't wrap my head around the fact that it was actually
suicide, and I thought of that as an accident part of me still believes that." today I spoke with a
suicide prevention coordinator and she says there's a list of warning signs parents can look for...
kristen says, "so the signs that we see are all different but if you look at signs of depression or
symptoms of depression and a lot of them go along hughts of suicide." but holt told me her
daughter didn't show any of these warning signs... susan says, "when she passed, every
teacher, every friend, everyone said all they did was see her smile all the time, they never saw
her look sad and nobody believed it everyone was in shock." in the months leading up to her
death...holt says her daughter did admit to feeling depressed sometimes. susan says, "she
wrote a note that said my life is wonderful, I don't understand why I feel so sad." although
grace did start counseling to help with her depression... holt says there are things she wishes
she would have done differently. susan says, "i would say listen instead of talk so much. like
when I look back I think gosh I did a lot of talking.. and never ever take depression lightly." now
more than ever... she says educating people on suicide prevention is important. losing someone
you love to suicide is a pain she says she can't put into words. susan says, "I’m not sure that
there's a harder thing to survive and to be really honest I didn't think that I would the first
year." she says people need to know that seeking help isn't as scary as it seems. kristen says,
"it's not when often how people portray as like this padded room it's just caring people like me
and you here in the room saying we care about you were trying to work through this crisis with
you." on newswatch 12 at 4 ...we spoke to jill jeter -- she is crisis prevention specialist with the
medford school district. she stressed the importance of talking to kids about mental health. you
can find that interview on kdrv.com. suicide prevention in schools-tag if you know someone
dealing with mental health issues or contemplating suicide. you can have them call the number
on your screen now.
KONG-SEA
May 22 • 12:44 AM

B_MAY_WASH_83

kids avoid uncomfortable feelings by burying their thoughts in entertainment on phones and
tablets, not learning the skills kids are feeling more to cope. pressure to achieve in school.
106

coupled with concerns about making a living when they grow up. and researchers say parents
can often be to blame. parents of high-achieving students play a detrimental role by pressuring
their children to achieve. and they should be aware of unrealistic frames. first, not just with our
kids but other parents and teachers. cut deny on after-school activities so kids have more time
for homework and family time. limit technology and do not be shy to ask for people. >> we'll be
diving into issues like this all week lock. it is so important to speak out and speak up. if you see
these things, you know anyone that does, contact the national suicide prevention hotline or
text the word heal to 241241
KMVU (FOX)
May 22 • 1:11 AM

B_MAY_OREG_105

middle school community is in mourning tonight... after a young student died by suicide this
week. hedrick middle school notified parents of the tragedy yesterday afternoon... fox26's miles
furuichi has more. on this tuesday... a school is mourning the loss of a student. "there are adults
who are here for them, who care about them, it's ok to have these feelings and lets talk about
them." on monday... hedrick middle school notified parents that one of its students died by
suicide. in response to the tragedy... the medford school district is offering support to those in
need. "we know that it is our responsibility to provide our students with the resources to cope
with tragedies." but outside of school... experts say having that discussion is just as vital in your
family. "we need to really focus on the people that are left and need to support them.
so asking how they're feeling about it is super important." kristin fettig of jackson county
mental health has discussions about suicide with middle school and high school students across
the county. she says on average... she and other mental health counselors visit individual
classes once or twice each year. "do you think that's enough though?" "no I think... in health
classes that's where I’m usually going and doing the presentations and I think it needs to be
happening more. it starts at home just like everything. it starts at home, having these
conversations that mental health is something that's normal." fettig says as a community... we
need to be supportive of those with mental health issues. having that support... could help
make a difference. "the more we break down the stigma of mental health and it being ok to
seek services the more we're going to see people reaching out when it comes to suicidal
thoughts." in medford, miles furuichi, fox26 news. according to the world health organization,
suicide is the second leading cause of death among 15 to 29- year-olds. the medford school
district says several resources are available to students and staff should they have thoughts of
suicide. the district says they have trained and licensed counselors at every school and a suicide
prevention specialist who tours the schools, providing students with resources on coping
mechanisms and advice on prevention. but the district says the most important relationship is
between students and their teachers. "we do see that our students talk to the adults in our
building that they trust and we hope that they continue to do so and that they reach out for
help when they need it." the school district says there is a response line to help teachers, staff
and law enforcement respond to safety concerns and threats of suicide. the "safe oregon" line
is operated by Oregon state police and manned 24-7... it's also free. you can call or text
resources are also available outside of schools... if you are in crisis.. call the lines for life

107

youthline -- a teen-to-teen crisis and help line... at 877-968-8491 or text teen-2-teen to 8-3-9-86-3.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 22 • 1:52 AM

B_MAY_WASH_84

A new study in the Journal of the American medical Association found pre-teen suicide rates up
nearly 13% in girls the findings mirror what researchers found the National Institute of mental
health they screen 10 to 12 year-olds who came into emergency Department for suicide risk it
found 30% had contemplated suicide police harwood is a pediatric psychologist who seeks to
have every hospital spent 20 seconds screening In a suicide bomb half don't do it and the
hospital don't and that's where you know we're really trying to advocate for their universal
weaning the majority of kids will bring negative but the one he kept can be lifesaving a study of
teen girls ages 15 to 19 years old showed suicide rates more than double from 2007 to 2015.
KHQ (NBC)
May 22 • 5:46 AM

B_MAY_WASH_85

before the break as part of nbc's kids under pressure series we showed you the tragic story of
two members of a utah lacrosse team who died of suicide within six months of each other. >>
suicide is the leading cause of death among teenagers but it's a tough topic for parents to talk
about with their children and here is jen hartstein, a psychologist who specializes into working
with adolescents and young adults what are the warning signs as parents? I have two kids, two
boys who don't talk a lot -- don't express their emotions how do we get from them what we
need to hear as well and know that they are okay >> there's a couple of things. we think about
warning signs, right. some of the key warning signs you want to pay about is any significant
change in behavior and any significant talk of suicide and even in passing. you want to take that
super seriously. giving away of belonging these kinds of things to think about and to get them
to talk we want to just be present. let them know that you're there. don't be afraid to say, hey,
you seem a little bit down today what's going on? let's take a walk. for a lot of us we want to sit
and have these face-to-face conversations. kids do better if you walk with them sit next to them
and feels less threatening. I don't want to talk to you now. i'll check back in later >> these
statistics, these spikes why? why have we seen it go up at such a dramatic rate >> it's hard to
know there are so many factors that are involved here. one is as we were talking about during
the break that there is an increase in pressure overall. there's an increase in the need to
succeed the need to believe that without that there's not anything. >> what do you tell your
kids if they have that anxiety >> anxiety is on a continuum when your kids are coming to you.
remind them life is full of so many different things and academic success is one piece and we
want relationship success and emotional access and all these other pieces and sit and talk to
them why is it so important and encourage them to just be open and model for them how to
talk about emotions. >> in this story we saw this contagious effect, that one person died by
suicide this other young man, six months later. this is something that's happening all over the
country how do we talk to our kids when they lose somebody that they love. >> don't be afraid
to ask your kids if they are feeling suicidal I think there's a believe we shouldn't talk about it,
108

because if I’m giving you the idea if someone is feeling suicide al you're not giving them the
idea. contagion happens because now there's a more specific idea of what the mean is and how
do I do it, and we kind of spiral from there. be open and be available and encourage discussion
of emotions you have boys. >> yeah. >> encourage it. have your husband talk to them about
emotions have him show emotions the more we see men showing emotion the more we can
have young boys showing emotion and that is a glaring hole in how we deal with this stuff. >>
thanks so much. so much important information here just tip of the iceberg here. >> thank you
so much we could continue this and we hope you can come back and we do if you know
someone who may be considering suicide contact the national suicide prevention line at 1-800273-825.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 22 • 7:36 AM

B_MAY_WASH_86

the nation's medical system falls far short of meeting the demand 14 mental health services
because cases of suicide and psychiatric disorders are sky rocketing chain o'donnell health
policy reporter at usa today says this underscores a public health crisis that is already costing
americans billions to fight she's got a look at some new data jane what are we learning we have
a larger social problem personal health problem wow where people are dying everything going
in the wrong direction we have an increase in overdoses have an increase in suicides increase
the alcohol we do we have a situation where people laugh and their dog who are now adults
have mental health issues in many of these cases that were never addressed when they were
younger however now we know better and we know that young people need bento help them
often because they all made it past and because they often need treatment and they get it
they're going to live much more productive happy nobody there just isn't enough treatment the
ability and aren't enough mental health services providers it another we recognize that so much
help is needed right a natural joy but you know certainly in the 70 years maybe started hearing
about it in the oven need it they were talking much about depression and anxiety about all and
bipolar I didn't think the term around back then we know that we know these things and we
know what the diagnosis he means her you're like a candidate so something needs to be done
about them but we just don't have enough to deal with that speak with tina o'donnell health
policy reporter at usa today she's written a piece entitled teen suicide and mental health
america is deadly costly problems that have no end in sight when you said what was asass 40%
of people who need help not getting it going treat yes of young people and that I believe the
teen killed 40% are not getting treatment however writing of reasons that often there's a lack
of education by parents or pegida again seeking treatment acknowledging their child might
have a problem a disorder which is healthy hue nada not a failing obviously and then once you
get through that com if you can of getting a parent to acknowledge the child needs to be at that
there's often a very long week and get them treated you can go up to 10 years and you you end
up with the young people who are often a good fight or become addictive not sure it could help
pay some of those things are connected right at the very much so yeah I do about it I thought it
was higher but the food number lifeboat with like 50% of the people with addiction disorders
have colo ap doing his thing will be if one of them I personally have never met someone who
had been an alcoholic or a drug a drug abuser and I am howard who didn't have a depression
109

anxiety yours very serious trauma that they were trying to medicate with regards to the
headline here with no end in sight what about progress in the meantime on the march to trying
to solve some of these numbers aqim and there's some progress with it if they can't keep up
with like the solution can keep up with the increases and diagnose sees then of course the
diagnosis I don't mean more people are getting depressed now we know they're there they
wouldn't put it that way ap but one that looked very much hopeful thing that that is is having
pediatricians shelf like a general practice doctors like any of our family position fat actually do
an assessment during the call and ask be appropriate screening questions to see if the child is it
has thought about hurting themselves the feeling you feeling hopeless it's gone then there
behaviors came toe and that could be that could be determined that at an earlier age that
would be a big inroads they could be with ever crucial work psychiatrist psychologist by pn
available but there's a tremendous shortage of psychiatrists and in some cases medication
would work and some cases the y.p.g. group therapy there's all sorts of both solution but you
got it you got to get in for exchanging.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 22 • 7:50 AM

B_MAY_OREG_106

reporter: in jail, he got trouble for disobeying an order. his punishment was seven days in
solitary. >> I’m again, what have I done wrong in my life that I get this punishment? >> we have
created and continued to support a system that involves widespread abuse of human beings.
>> reporter: she works for the department of homeland security. in 2014, she was with a
different office where she reviewed files. she saw hundreds of detainees being put in solitary
confinement. is schizophrenic detainee scheduled to 390 days in solitary for throwing human
waste at a guard. another had 15 days. >> they said he had hit in the gre half a green pepper. >>
reporter: the policy states that detainees should be segregated only after careful consideration
of alternatives. >> solitary confinement was being used as a first resort, not the last resort.
sometimes, it was the only approach. >> reporter: in a statement, a spokesperson says i.c.e. is
committed to the safety and welfare for those in its custody. they say that is at times necessary
to ensure the safety of staff and individuals in the facility. between 2014 and 2010, gallagher
said details detailing her concerns up the chain. >> reporter: how would you characterize the
response? were you speaking now? >> if I do not speak up, I don't think I could live with myself.
>> reporter: a review found that more than 8000 cases of immigrants held in solitary
confinement under both the obama and trump administrations. one third of them involved the
mentally ill, including one put in isolation for nearly 2 years. at least seven have committed
suicide while in solitary. an immigrant from honduras tried to kill herself all and solitary new
mexico. she spent about 11 months in isolation. sometimes in the cell like this. documents
show officials knew about her history of mental illness, including prior suicide events. >> it is
only me. is of the people who are living in segregation time right now and they need to be out
of there. at the end of the time, when you get out, you will feel like me.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 22 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_107

110

breaking news in southeast portland. several streets blocked off after a man climbed a crane
near mlk and anthony, and police are just trying to get that guy down. >> mike, can you walk us
through what is going on there? >> reporter: well, this man is identity is in some kind of crisis,
and out of respect for him and what he is going through, we're not going to show him right
now. but this crane sits about 300 feet in the air, and we understand just before 2:00 this
afternoon, this man in christopher somehow got on to the equipment and climbed to the top.
we understand there was crane operator at the top when this happened. that person cut power
to the crane and hurried down, and this man in crisis we're told has been at the top ever since.
we know that crisis negotiators here. they know who this man is. they've been in touch with his
family and they've been talking to him using loud speakers. it appears he understands them and
can hear them. there is also several first responders that have climbed to the top as well. I have
noticed in the last 20 to 30 minutes or so, the attempted rescue, the attempt talk this man
down, has stalled out a little bit. it appears he may have blocked the path of officers who are
trying to reach him. so, again, a scary situation out here. this crane is about 300 feet in the air,
and right now that is where this man is. we've been on scene for the last hour or so. we'll stay
out here to see how this all unfolds, but for now, let's send it back to you in the studio. >> thank
you, mike, for that update. we want to know if you are someone you know needs help. the
national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 hours a day.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 22 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_108

deb: that breaking news, several streets are shut down in southeast Portland as Portland fire
and police crews are trying to talk a man down after he climbed up a 300-foot construction
crane. it's happening near southeast 2nd and ash. right now roads are on mlk and around an
can I are hit down. >> lincoln: here's a live look from below the crane. we're not showing the
man as police say he is suffering from a mental health crisis. it's a volatile situation, we don't
want to make things worse. we have also seen officers on the crane working to get that man
down safely. again, several streets in that area are shut down and there's a very large police
presence. please avoid that area. we will of course bring you updates as we get them. >> deb:
experts say most mental health crises are temporary and will pass. if you know someone or you
need some help, call the national suicide prevention hotline at 1-800-273-8255.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 22 • 7:26 PM

B_MAY_WASH_87

all right, meanwhile across america, rates of depression and anxiety in kids are up, suicide is
now the second leading cause of death for 10 to 24-year-olds. the today show has taken the
topic with their kids under pressure series, former world champion boxer, mia st. john says her
son changed drastically in his teen years. julian is his name, he battled depression he was
eventually diagnosed with schizophrenia, at the age of 24, he died by suicide while in a
psychiatric hospital. >> I had a call a few hours later, from the hospital, saying that my son was
gone. and all I remember is screaming at the top of my lungs. I knew then, at that moment, that
I was born for a purpose. >> mia said she wants to erase the stigma around mental health. we
111

have more information from the washington state department of health and resources for
anyone who needs them, text the word help to us, again, just text the word help in we'll get
you we need to know. >> when it comes to removing stigma, we have to stop with the little
things of making fun of mental health issues. all of it. all the jokes that take place around
bipolar, or depression, or anxiety. these are real medical issues. >> and people just throw them
around. we are all guilty, it's crazy. that guy is schizo, and you forget that there's people who
this is a very real thing and that's not just a word we made up that's associated to a very real
problem. it trickles down to the kids. we got to make good influences on them. it starts with all
of us. we are going to go to the 55, now. case you are standing by.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 22 • 8:03 PM

B_MAY_OREG_109

reporter: well, can, we've seen some good progress here in the last 20 minutes or so. the man
you mentioned in a crisis has moved to a portion of the crane that allows officers to get a little
closer to him and maybe have a face-to- face conversation and hopefully successfully talk him
to safety. in the meantime, this all started to unfold a little before 2:00, this man in crisis we're
trying to be sensitive to. we're not showing images or video of him. he climbed to the continue
of this 300-foot crane and just 2:00. the operator shutdown power to the crane and hurried
down to safety, but ever since that 2:00 hour, so more than three hours now, this man has
been at the top of the crane. he has walked back and forth. he is now sitting at the top. we
understand from officers and crisis negotiators on the scene, they know who this man is. they
are talking to him and his family. the hope here is that they can talk him town safely. they're
not trying to hurry this process. time is on their side. there's still several hours of daylight, so
they have to some time to work with. the last thing they want to do is rush this thing. again, this
is in southeast portland, the crane is connected to a building that is going up. a number of roads
around this area are shut down for this operation. we'll, of course, stay out here and bring you
the latest, but for now, let's send it back to you. >> we see the police tape laying behind you
there, so we would advise people to stay away from that area. as police try to work out these
details, we want to put this number for you on the screen. if you or someone you know needs
help, the national suicide prevention hotline is available 24 hours a day. 1-800-273-8255.
News Radio KEX
May 22 • 8:52 PM

B_MAY_OREG_110

there were 21 of suicide among veterans westlake worry or the network these numbers coming
from I can to help okay we're numbers coming from I get from camp hope which is from the
ptsd foundation of america the v.a. estimates 20 points 6 but that number is artificially low
because if you're not registered with the v.a. they don't count your suicide are that they don't
yet they don't count your suicide unless you're registered with the program and you literally
take a gun and put it to a header or hang yourself they don't count they don't count the
occasions where someone drives head on into a train they don't all the various way is a
prescription drug overdose they don't count those why u.s. and gets in kind of tired health of
income like compared to all our history I think that better we always come home with all sorts
112

of all others that they would but 22 she didn't really seem to be very hot it is it is very high out I
will tell you talking to folks that are career military they tell me that these numbers have never
been seen before we've now lost considerably more veterans to suicide and then we look at
Vietnam veterans two suicide that we lost in Vietnam so put that into perspective that's a at it
but those numbers were not pretty staggering number if you think of nearly as high as the
numbers are today we have about what the number of Vietnam have a good time and kicked to
the curb and not getting I think the attention the recognition they really do have all the
radicalism who has written about her here and nevertheless the suicide rates while their higher
than any conflict we had in the past they don't approach anything like what we're seeing today
from Iraq and Afghanistan we get it you're all I could do me and we spent a lot of time talking
about this but folks that are in the treatment side of it we'll tell you there are several factors at
play we've never seen before tell you what that take some of those factors I hear again and
again and again number one is aghast they go to Afghanistan and Iraq or Afghanistan and they
served a tour they always go back combat units always go back and it that seems
counterintuitive right if you make it out alive most of us feel like and if I make a lot of go home
never going back that's not how they think it and it's not because they're warmongers it is
because there is such a sense of camaraderie in these modern combat units and the mindset of
the gas that sign up and go that when they come home they're not complete the they're not
hold they want to be back with their bodies and their but the streets of connection they have to
those body's is so much more powerfull than anything they have with the gas they went to high
school with they grew up with it it's insurmountable we look at the case got of dan crenshaw
then crenshaw lost one guy and was told the fact he can see is is is amazing it's a miracle he was
told he was probably going to lose both he lost one was probably born was both he went back
and serve not one but two and you know he's still mad that they made him leave the navy
where he was a lieutenant commander navy seal he's still mad about it now for those of us that
don't serve the mindset is well if I look at it if if I lose my mind in war I’m gonna I’m gonna cut
my losses and go into civilian life so what drives that guy to still want to serve he gave a speech
before the house last week talking about the fact that the military is cutting people lose from
active service who want to serve who have special skills and and they're cutting them loose for
medical reasons and losing a great deal of expertise any talk about himself in that group you
think about that the guys still mad they won't let him go serve war that tells you something
about the type of war your we have today it's a special moment it's unique it's good we have it
but it tells you a lot about that I don't I don't think we had guys want to go back again and again
and again empire conflicts to start with number two these individuals are serving in wartime
conditions laid out in the landscape a move of civilian life I think that the psychological toll it
takes your feet they featured this in in american sniper about the way the difficulty chris kyle
had day after day having the site in on an 8 year-old kid who's on his way to walk up to an
american g guy because he maybe carrying obama is back and having to make that decision if
that kid does something that looks like he's pulling them that the pin on the grenade I gotta
take amount having to make those decisions you remember that powerful scene in the movie
that is also from his book speaking of which tomorrow morning at 9 30 our discussion with taya
kyle chris kyle's widow she helped him on american sniper she finished project he was already
working on called american gun she then wrote her autobiography called american wife and
now she's written a book called american spirit more about the people she met and the spirit of
113

america and and these sort of profiles in courage she has witnessed in all aspects of life that
interview will be tomorrow morning at 9 30 on a morning show and we will replay that in the
evening because it's that important to me but I hope you'll take time to go get the book called
american spirit profiles in a resilience courage and faith and for our listeners in Portland she will
be ad lake oswego this sunday evening at 7 o'clock.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 22 • 9:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_111

reporter: a little survivor with the strength of a superhero and now a sidekick with him every
step of the >>> this is kgw news at 6:00. >>> this dangerous contention that continued on
easter. the so police search teams on the ground and negotiating with a man said to be in crisis
who climbed a 300-foot crane. >> such a delicate situation. our own mike benner has been
there all evening. mike, any progress at this point? >> reporter: maggie, that appears to be the
case where, of course, a block away and hundred feet below where this is unfolding, but from
our vantage point it appears this man in crisis has lowered himself into the cab of the crane, so
he's no longer pacing back and forth at the top, which of course is exponentially more
dangerous. we can tell you as we show you somebody of your of the scene, and we are not
showing a video of this man out of respect for him and what he's going through, but we can tell
you that this all started to unfold just before 2:00. more than four hours ago, this man climbed
about 300 feet to the top of this crane. we know there is a crane operator there at the time.
that person shut down p the crane and hurried down to safety, but again, this meant in crisis
has been at the top of the screen for the last four hours. we understand that Christ is
negotiators here on see know who this man is, they're of course communicating with him, they
are also talking to his family try to get this to the safest possible conclusion. the good thing right
now is that it's daylight, and we still have several hours of daylight, so you know, the time is on
the side of first responders. you know, things will get really dicey when it gets dark and if that
man is still up there, they're for now but of daylight to work with. something to pass along the.
there are several blocks around this area. this is near ankeny and southeast 3rd. the roads
around the shutdown, but you may want to avoid this area. we will keep an eye on the situation
pass on any new information on air and online. >> we appreciate the updates, and we know
this is such a tough situation. we did not show the videos of the manner or the crane. if you or
someone you know needs help, the national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 hours a
day. the number is on your screen right there. it's 1-800-273-8255.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 22 • 10:00 PM

B_MAY_WASH_ 88

there's a new look at children whose parents are on opioids kids whose mom or dad or both
were prescribed opioids according to a new study were twice as likely to attempt suicide the
children of parents who did not use those drugs the research none of the university of Chicago
and Pittsburgh is the first study to try to establish a link between rising suicides that american
kids the opioid crisis one researcher says he believes that some opioid users might show less

114

care monitoring and affection for their children but seems to explain the higher suicide rate in
those young people.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 23 • 1:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_112

a man who police say was in crisis at the top of a crane is safe tonight. police say he was up
there for hours, streets below as a result were closed to traffic. as officers work today get the
man down safely. fox 12's bonnie silkman was there when the moments played out and live
near the crane with a mess pitch of hope so many people put out for that very man, bonnie. >>
reporter: that's exactly right, liz. you know that, man in crisis climbed up the crane that's behind
us right higher and after five very long hours of speaking with Portland police's cries I
negotiation team he came bown safe and alive. he is in the hospital. tonight, of the many have
their eyes up at the crane. a lot of people watching what happened as it all played out and what
happened today is bringing up the difficult topic of mental health awareness and suicide
prevention. powerful words in the shadow of this towering crane that a man who police say
was in crisis climbed today. in the midst of that chaos and massive emergency response,
someone rushing here to put up these signs that say we love you. you matter. >> this is a kind
of support this. really can save someone's life. >> reporter: hawthorne wright says these
missions facing the sky are a true representation of the people of portland. >> what we do can
save lights this is not thoughts and prayers, this is a physical act done right here in a way that
can make a difference seven the people of the city and the police stepping up to get that man
in crisis back on the ground alive. the Portland police crisis negotiation team climbing up that
300-foot crane, speaking with that man after more than five long hours, a sigh of relief that
man and officers coming down safe. >> you never know who will be -- who is already
vulnerable. just having this happening causes pain and damage all wait through and we have to
take it seriously. >> reporter: hawthorne says th a I moments unfolding hundreds of feet in the
air should serve as a reminder that mental health needs to be discuss and the taken seriously.
and if you see something, say something. >> we have to being companionate. the conversation
we are having right now of how it can completely change someone's life to have someone you
can sit with and talk to and say I feel this. I have been through things like this, I know it's a hard
and we are there for you. these things have consequences that spread out through the
community. >> reporter: remember, if you know someone going through a difficult time or if
you yourself are going through a tough time, there are many resources. we have let's of all of
the resources right on our website that's kptv.com. there are also numbers out there where
you can text instead of calling if that makes you feel more comfortable. reporting live tonight in
southeast Portland bonnie silkman, fox 12 oregon.
KMVU (FOX)
May 23 • 1:14 AM

B_MAY_OREG_113

two eleven-year-old girls were pulled out of a medford school after both parents say they were
victims of bullying. they say the principal of the school... along with the medford school
district... didn't do nearly enough to fix the problem. tonight, one of them is sharing her difficult
115

story, in the hopes that it helps other families from the same fate. amanda rose has more in this
exclusive fox26 news report. "no parent should ever have to wonder if their child is going to
take their own life because of something that's happening that's completely out of their
control.no parent should have to continue to beg a school district to help them. no parent
should have to do this." for trina... sending her eleven-year-old daughter off to school every day
is too often filled with tears and anxiety. "this was not just girls being dramatic. this was an
eleven-year-old being told to kill herself...this was an eleven year old being called derogatory
names that I wouldn't say." trina says her daughter... along with her daughter's best friend, who
we've en not to name, were victims of incessant and vicious bullying. "...they were having panic
attacks. they were making up reasons not to go to school." she says it started last school year...
in 5th grade at Medford’s lone pine elementary. "just kind of the mean girl stuff at that point...
snarky comments, saying horrible things." trina asked that the girls be separated when 6th
grade began last fall. she was thankful when the school agreed... but says it didn't help. "she
would ridicule our children on the playground, she would call them names, she would tell other
students’ horrible things." trina says after raising concerns in a parent teacher conference in
November... the school got the girls together to talk it out. but trina says things didn't improve.
"i emailed daily...daily occurrences." trinas emails back up her claims of repeatedly reaching out
to lone pine principal gerry flock. "from our perspective, there wasn't a lot of discipline taking
place." neither flock nor the district will talk about this case because of privacy issues. but we
have acquired several different public records pertaining to this story including this police
report. "ended up being colored on with sharpie..." in January after trina says her daughter's
backpack was vandalized by the girl... principal flock recommended she file a report with
medford police. the report shows the principal told police that the school tried restorative
friendship circles and conversations for conflict resolution...but it didnt help. the school met
with the girls separately to hear both sides and made an arrangement for the girls to quote
"remain separate and apart at all times at school" end quote ... with consequences if they didn't
follow the rules. in the end... the police report concluded the situation didn't quote - "rise to
the level of disorderly conduct or direct threats of harm" end quote. school nats "i continued to
show up in his office weekly and ask for help. crying half the time out of frustration and
desperation." in february, principal flock wrote trina saying the girl broke the rules the school
established...and she quote - "will have consequences today for her non- compliance with the
recess expectation" end quote. he also said the district could offer her daughter a spot at a
middle school. but he said it is completely her choice. "that tells me that if you're enough of a
bully, you get your way. that teaches our child that when you are in a situation, it's best to tuck,
tail, and run." trina filed a formal complaint and got the you're enough of a bully, you get your
way. that teaches our child that when you are in a situation, it's best to tuck, tail, and run." trina
filed a formal complaint and got the district office involved. fox26 news received a copy of the
complaint’s findings. the investigation was led by district chief academic officer michelle
cummings. it concluded the girl was found to have violated school rules prohibiting bullying,
harassment and insubordination. she admitted quote "gossiping, pointing, staring, glaring,
making faces, posting on social media, and not following mr. flocks recess schedule" end quote.
the report also says the girl apologized for her actions in writing. she was not kicked out of
school. "i didn't believe that having this formal investigation would change anything because a
piece of paper... doesn't change people's actions." the district did create a "safety plan"
116

separating the girls during all parts of the day and all areas of the school. fox26 news also
obtained a copy of that plan. the girls had to alternate p.e. classes on thursdays, sit away from
each other in the cafeteria, and stay in separate areas of the layground at all times with quote
"zero exceptions" end quote. "my daughter and her best friend were essentially separated from
the entire sixth grade." but trina says the girl didnt stay away from her daughter. "on that day, I
don't know who couldn't take this anymore... I’m not sure if it was her or it was me." within
weeks there was another incident. tomorrow in part 2, how the principal says the alleged bully
defiantly broke his rules and why trina says nothing changed. "i couldn't watch this happen
anymore... and I did the o thing I swore I wouldn't do." in medford, a-r, fox26 news.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 23 • 2:00 AM

B_MAY_OREG_114

This is katie news at 11 on your son good evening everybody. a terrifying situation in southeast
Portland today. a man in a metal health crisis climbs to the top of a construction crane and
doesn't come down for. >>hours. so whole incident bride the area. >>to a standstill this
afternoon as with him lincoln at southeast anchor. me is at southeast 3rd an anchor me now
any idea how this man got access to the crane lincoln. >>well devon see we reached out to the
construction company but they have not made a comment on this construction sites are usually
surrounded by a fence like the one here right now anyone determined to do this likely could get
in. perhaps they either jump the fence or squeeze through some kind of a gap. >>it was a
horrifying thing to watch park public spectacle do to the unusual circumstances it's very unique
obviously 300 feet in the air. >>but mostly shared sadness and drag because people knew the
man was going through a mental health crisis. >>it's almost as if you try to put yourself in his
shoes and kind of understand what is going through. but it's almost impossible. >>if you like she
must have a lot going on in life. >>the man covered a lot of ground he made his way to the end
of the crane and back again. officers 1st used a long-range loudspeaker to communicate then
they got a phone to him. we. >>didn't know who he was at the very beginning. we were able to
use his information to build a report talk with family talk with french fries. you got wives on the
crane after. >>hours of negotiations the man agreed to come down our cameras cut him
reaching the bottom of the crane around 615 he was safe. >>no force was used. officer was her
the man was not hurt. so is a very good outcome. >>now it is still not clear if this man will be
charged with anything. by the way this construction project is called the 5 mlk building that will
eventually be a mixed use in residential building supposed to be finished next year. live in
southeast Portland >> thank you. we want to remind everybody that experts say most mental
health crisis are temporary and will pass. if you need to talk, there are always people standing
by at the national lifeline. 1-800-273-talk. you can text home, 274-1741 or chat online at suicide
prevention lifeline.org
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 23 • 2:02 AM

B_MAY_OREG_115

>>> a happy update to share with you tonight, a man who climbed to the top of a crane in
Portland is now on the ground and safe. first responders spoke to the man for five hours this
117

afternoon as he climbed to the top. they say he was having a mental crisis which is why we are
not going to show his face, or totally too much about him. he climbed down on his own, taken
to the hospital to get checked out. we do want to remind you if you or someone you know
needs help, the national suicide prevention wife line is always available, 24 hours a day, the
number is on your screen right now. one 800 is always available, 24 hours a day, the number is
on your screen right now. 1-800-273-8255.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 23 • 4:28 AM

B_MAY_WASH_89

the Washington state department of health says suicide is the second leading cause of death
for young people tend to twenty-four so thinking about those numbers is upsetting for any
parent but one dad was so concerned. he took action jamie tompkins shows us how he clearly
can you help me put some news together to be the change you want to see. sometimes you
have to dig deep and be bold every message helps that's a good one. that's what dad kobe
wallace hopes to do in this queen and neighborhood. I mean is rooted in love. a few weeks ago
he started posting science along the sidewalks near his daughter's elementary school the
messages are simple you're a worthy of love. the message behind the message. don't give up.
you don't know what people are going through. it's a nonprofit that started in Oregon and it's
spreading to neighborhoods all around the world hoping to inspire hope according to its
website colby says his goal is to get people talking about mental health he's especially
concerned about suicides among young people as a parent you feel really helpless and you hear
these stories. that you know this is happening in is happening alive, but nobody wants to talk
about it. you may be thinking it's a big topic for such a tiny audience active that, but the words
are not lost on the little ones. if you get nothing. it's you I’m always. well I’m not be good at
something that's definitely resonating with people even other parents seem to appreciate the
notion. what's wrong with having a positive message in general. right. I mean I think that's we
need more of it lately colby says some of the signs have been vandalized I love these signs.
that's my neighbors like penny are hosting them in their own front yards. I can't think of
anything that's better than you matter we spotted more signs sprouting up just a few miles
away. it's contagious hopefully to become the change. you want to see. I don't know where this
thing and sometimes you have to dig deep. for now for today and be bold. this is what we're
gonna do. in seattle jamie tompkins don't give a cute 30 news and we have talked with mental
health experts time and time again who have told us. these are important conversations you
have to have with your loved ones especially young people.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 23 • 7:33 AM

B_MAY_OREG_116

a man that climbed to the top of a crane in southeast Portland yesterday afternoon is safe on
the ground today. first responders talked to the man for five hours yesterday after he climbed
to the top. they say he was having a mental crisis which is why we are not showing his face.
these are law enforcement and firefighters that were climbing the tower. they eventually
climbed down on their own and was taken to a hospital to get checked out. if you or somebody
118

you know needs help, the national suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 hours a day. the
numbers on your screen. 800-273 -8255.
KPTV-POR (FOX)
May 23 • 8:30 AM

B_MAY_OREG_117

a man in crisis at the top of a 300-foot crane is now safe. he spent five hours on the crane in
southeast Portland before police could talk him down. this happened yesterday afternoon.
when the man came down--he wasn't hurt--but he was taken to a hospital. many people
watched this all unfold. we found some strong words of support for the man. someone put up
signs under the crane that say, "we love you. you matter." as you can imagine .. the scare got
people talking about mental health awareness and suicide prevention.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 23 • 9:02 AM

B_MAY_OREG_118

we want to update a crisis that caused a traffic jam in Portland yesterday. a man who was
having a mental health issue and climbed to the top of a crane in southeast Portland got down
safely. first responders talked to the man for five hours. so they had to shut down part of the
area. the crane was on the east end of the bridge and traffic backed up through downtown. the
man eventually climbed down on his own and was takto a hospital to get checked out. we do
want to remind you this morning that if you or somebody you know needs help, the national
suicide prevention lifeline is available 24 hours a day. that number is on your screen. it is 800273 -8255.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 23 • 9:04 AM

B_MAY_OREG_119

k-2 is working to learn how a man in a mental health crisis was able to access a construction
crime crane and climb to the top. they say he likely liked the fence surrounding the construction
site or squeezed through a gap. first, they tried to talk using a loud speaker. it is not clear if he
will face charges. if you or someone you know is going through a mental health crisis, help is
available. the under the number for the suicide prevention line is on your screen right now.
News Radio KEX
May 23 • 7:51 PM

B_MAY_OREG_120

together just minutes from now at the top of the hour the usual radio we have 9 eat cake he
acts find take this story to be absolutely amazing and you know it's it's one of those examples
that it it's not what happens to you in life it's how you respond to it you know what when you
give us if you see american sniper and I’m sure most of you have you know that it's it looked so
many lives out there a hoot they lose their husband in war aonth their husband comes home
and as chris kyle and intel they were very honest about they suffer from ptsd they suffer you
know what I will say this their story so much of how we view ptsd and can uphold and and
119

veterans and suicide and and the needs of our veterans have whether the v.a. is meeting so
much of that was shaped it really put into the public consciousness within the last 10 to 15
years but I think marcus trail what he went through afghanistan chris kyle in american sniper in
those are from my knowledge probably the two most powerfull stories that were polled first
and in print and then and then the movies were made about him and I think that really put that
into the public consciousness of know these term years into iraq afghanistan abortion were
fighting these the set went 18 years into it that now 17 18 that these guys are are in a war zone
we think of ourselves as being a peacetime nation but worsened in gaza and the war into some
really really bad things and then of course you know they come home and everything that that
they cope with when they come moment and and kristen tate hour were very honest about
that and american sniper is as much about that as it is you know his heroics how many lives he
saved by his proficiency in war and why they called him the devil over muddy was because the
gas he knocked out or where the guys that were that were were doing a lot of damaged our to
our forces but if you think about to start with you know in your relationship to have this
element thrown and and then he comes home their coping with that and really doing well with
that and and introducing some normalcy into their relationship with their family and he's
murdered wow chain now you have a whole different set of things to go through and you have
him there with you and you don't have your co-parent you don't have your lover you don't have
the love of your life you don't have to hear you dear friend and confidant you don't have your
co-parent you don't have your breadwinner when a imagine how difficult that has to be to have
all of those things you yank from you in a split second and the whole nation decisions because
they want to be there it shows who this man and his legacy what he means to the nation and
then and then they leave and you have to pick up the pieces and night after raising kids and you
have to you have to pay your bills and when everyone's gone days of the mundane pedestrian
horrors that the fall family and horrors maybe the these are the real life issues that the fall of
fame.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 23 • 9:05 PM

B_MAY_OREG_121

we do have another of a number of other things in place that are serving individuals with
mental health concerns. >> reporter: these are three representatives for the behavioral health
unit, it's made up of five two-person teams, an officer pelt with paired with a mental health
clinician. five days a week those teams follow up on referrals from patrol officers who have
encountered someone dealing with mental health issues. >> on average we get about 1000
referrals per year that come in. we may find an individual that had frequent please contact so
maybe their behavior has shown an escalation over the recent days or weeks. that would be
concerning to us. I really anytime there's maybe a weapon or perceived weapon involved. >>
reporter: the unit came about in 2013 after the u.s. justice department found the Portland
police bureau had a pattern of using excessive force against people suffering from mental
illness. since then, ppb has made other strides. they have a partnership with cascadia
behavioral health which lets officers request help from mental health clinicians 24/7. close to
130 officers have had80 hours of enhanced crisis intervention training, which covers things like
talking to someone in a mental health crisis or responding to suicidal threats. all 900+ officers
120

have undergone 40 hours of that training. that includes officer zachary nell of central precinct.
we followed along on his patrol. and within the first hour, a call came in about an unwanted
person in this apartment complex. turns out they broken into mailboxes. nell and another
officer searched the building but found no one. his concern is one we heard a lot from the
bureau. calls can seem benign at first, and then become violent. and sometimes he says the site
of a police officer calms people down. >> some of these people going through mental health
crisis, they will sometimes be more comfortable speaking to a police officer then they will be
speaking to either the social worker or the clinician. i've come across it before where i've
worked with somebody who is in mental health and I had a conversation with that person
myself just because they felt like I would make more of a change. >> a change, exactly what
some are pushing for when it comes to portland's first response. >> right now there is no hard
deadline on getting a straight response team up and running, the budget was just approved
minutes ago, so that half billion dollars is sitting there ready to go, but the 911 operators will
not be trained on this new program with these new questions until at least next year, it's an 18
month training program. >>> let's go back to the police, it sounds like they have some real
concerns about this. how can we be sure it is safe to send an unarmed citizen to a 911 call? >>
we hear that from people at home we heard that from police and first and foremost we are told
that it would be on the operator and the list of questions that the bureau decides on for them
to basically vet the call and decide if it is appropriate. in eugene, they say if there's any
ambiguity, they send the police officer first area that officer gets there and they check out the
situation and talk to everybody involved in maybe they say there's no danger here, let me call
him cahoots and then the cahoots team come in and they take over and the officers free to go
on and deal with other calls and they said often it saves them perhaps hours, no one knows, but
they don't have to stay and deal with the person who may be just needs a connection to
services or maybe needs a ride to the hospital. it takes a load off of them. >> it's so interesting
to see how the street response team would work.>> we will see if it works in portland, this is a
very big experiment that they have now put the money aside for that was a big step.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 23 • 9:45 PM

B_MAY_WASH_90

tonight, a king 5 investigation has led to five powerful u.s. senators demanding immediate
action from the veteran’s administration. >> last week we revealed how the va botched the
rollout of a mandatory program aimed at reducing the number of veterans dying from suicide.
taylor reports on what the senators say need to happen now. >> reporter: these u.s. senators
came out swinging today. Washington’s patty murray and maria cantwell were among the five
who sent this letter to the man in charge at the va saying they are deeply frustrated thousands
of at-risk veterans aren't getting the mental health care they are owed. >> this is a ray of
sunshine and makes me feel like maybe I’m not crazy. >> reporter: brian is one of thousands of
vets with another than honorable discharge who ould have gotten mental health care but hnlt
that means you were kicked out for breaking the rules. in brooirn's case, he took a narcotic that
wasn't allowed. >> why did you take that medication? >> I don't know. it seems surreal. >>
reporter: the law expanded access to va mental health treatment for this other than honorable
group. they have a high risk of suicide. here's how the va fell down on the job. they were
121

supposed to notify eligible veterans by a deadline. they missed it. and the agency served less
than 1% of the people who qualified for help in the last two years. when they did get around to
doing something, they sent out one letter to nearly 500,000 vet this is year. you never were
notified that you qualify for mental health care? >> no, I was never notified. >> reporter:
senators wrote the va must do more than the bare minimum and ordered the department to
conduct a public outreach campaign to educate veterans and the public about the new law. >> I
think this will absolutely serve lives because if a veteran has been kicked out with another than
honorable discharge knows they have access to mental health care, that maybe be the only
thing in their life that is going right for them. >> reporter: we saw firsthand how some verts
who reached out for help were given confusing and inaccurate information. that's what
happened when we went with brian in april to the american lake mid cal center at the va. he
went in asking for mental health treatment for his ptsd. so in the span of one conversation you
had been told -- >> three different things. on one issue. only mental health care and I still got
three different answers. >> reporter: in response to brian's experience and veterans like him,
the senators ordered the va to retrain staff and conduct routine inspections of intake personnel
to make sure they're giving veterans the right info so they don't walk away from help for good.
now, for weeks national va officials have denied by interview requests and refused to answer
my questions. mark and greg, they told me today they plan to respond to the senators. that's all
we know. >> senators here are going to be making some demand or have to the va. the va is
going to respond. if the senators don't like what the va has to say, do they have any recourse?
>> congress has some options. it can choose to withhold funding, pass additional legislation to
mandate the va to do additional outreach to reach these veterans. it will be up to congress to
decide what to do next after they get the response. >> certainly, an epidemic of vets who need
help, right? >> absolutely. suicide is a real problem with veterans.
KAYU (FOX)
May 24 • 1:06 AM

B_MAY_WASH_91

in the east central shooting from earlier this week...that left one man seriously injured.
according to our partners at the spokesman review...two people found monday's shooting
victim bleeding inside their apartment. they say they did not know the victim...and had never
seen him before. the 25-year-old was brought to the hospital with wounds to his chest...groin
and legs. he said he was waiting outside of the apartment...when he started getting shot at...so
he climbed through an open window. last month... 35- year-old james allison was killed at the
same complex. police are investigating whether the two shootings are related. we have new
information tonight on a tragic story that unfolded exactly one month ago today. a spokane
valley woman stabbed multiple times by her estranged husband...tied up...and her son taken
from her the incident triggered an amber alert...luckily the boy was ok. the response by local
law enforcement was made possible by an early call for help from the victim... and a concerned
dispatcher who went above and beyond... today... the two met for the first time in person...
and fox first at ten's joe mchale was there. steph it was one red flag ... that made one
dispatcher inew york ... call the spokane county sheriff's office. and her quick actions likely
saved a spokane valley mother's life. 03:24:42;27 I went to sleep that night thinking everything
was okay missy robertson had no warning ... no indication ... that a normal evening in this
122

spokane valley neighborhood would turn into the longest few hours of her life. 03:26:49;01 I
had no idea at that moment then he would become violent like he did missy woke in the middle
of the night. her hands bound together by her husband ... 41- year-old justin
robertson. 03:22:54;29 I was trying to come up with any way possible to communicate to the
outside world at that point missy eventually broke free. she tried yelling out her bedroom
window for help. she tried standing in front of her security camera. but robertson ... continued
his attack. 03:22:25;06 I needed help fearing for her life ... missy pressed the panic button on
her security key fob. but that's when her husband snapped ... stabbing and slashed missy 66
times. then ... ... the phone rang. hello? hello good morning this is sue with adt is everything
okay? we're getting a panic alarm from the key fob remote? yes everything is okay it started
like every other call from an alarm company. it is okay alright I’m glad to hear that sir may I
have your name please? melissa only melissa was on the floor bleeding profusely. robertson
had answered her phone ... and tried to dissuade the dispatcher ... but his plan quickly fell
apart. and your password please ms. robertson? .. do you know what your password is it's a
four-letter word? 03:33:04;09 they were very hesitant and they didn't want to give out
information and then the phone just kind of abruptly ended a-d-t dispatcher sue phommanirat
knew something was up.so she called the spokane county 9-1-1 center who quickly sent two
spokane valley police officers to the home...including deputy clay hilton. 03:41:05;22 there was
a lot of blood so taylor started giving medical aid while I cleared the house looking for the
suspect robertson was gone ... along with their five-year- old son. it all ended hours later in
saint john where robertson ended his own life. missy and her son are on the long road to
recovery. these scars are a reminder of the night she nearly died. on thursday ... ... missy got to
say thank you to sue ... who flew tow-thousand miles to meet her. 03:32:44;12 it was very
emotional and I’m glad I came out here and got to meet her and experience this as for missy ...
she sa her husband stuggled with mental health illness and depression ... but never thought
he'd turn violent. she wants to use this horrible situation to bring some people's darkest
struggles to the light. 03:28:37;09 there's nothing wrong with asking for help. I know thats
difficult for a lot of people but really theres nothing wrong with it ... takes time not an overnight
fix in spokane jm ff10 joe thank you.
KONG-SEA
May 24 • 1:29 AM

B_MAY_WASH_92

welcome back to king 5 news. five powerful u.s. senators are demanding immediate action
from the vice president of veteran's affairs. >> we discussed how the va botched a rollout of a
mandatory program for veterans dying of suicide. what needs to happen now. >> reporter:
these u.s. senators came out swinging today. washington's patty maria cantwell were among
the five who sent this letter to the man in charge at the va that they were deeply frustrated
thousands of at-risk veterans are not getting the mental health care they are legally owed. >>
this is a ray of sunshine. >> reporter: brian mccann is one of thousands of vets with an other
than honorable discharge who should have gotten mental health care but hasn't. other than
honorable means you were kicked out breaking the rules. in his case, he took a narcotic that
wasn't allowed. >> why did you do it? ingly don't know. it is surreal that I did that. >> reporter:
123

they have a high risk of suicide. but here is how the va fell down on the job. they were
supposed to notify eligible veteran of the benefit by a deadline. we found they missed it. and
the agency served less than 1% of the people who qualified for help in the last two years. when
they got around to doing something, they sent out one letter to nearly 500,000 vets this year.
>> you never were notified you qualify for mental health care? >> no. the va must do more than
the bare minimum and ordered the department to conduct a public outreach campaign. >> I
think this will absolutely save lives. if a veteran has been kicked out for other than honorable
discharge knows they have access to mental health care, that may be the only thing in their life
that is going right for them. >> reporter: we saw firsthand how some veterans who did reach
out for help were given confusing and inaccurate information. that's what happened when we
went with mccann in april to the medical center at the va. he went in asking for mental health
treatment for his ptsd. >> in the span of one conversation, you had been told. >> three different
things. on one issue. only mental health care and I still got three different answers. >> reporter:
in response to his experience, and veterans like him, the senators ordered the va to retrain staff
and conduct routine inspections of intake personnel to make sure they are giving veterans the
right info so they don't walk away from help for good. >>> for weeks, national va officials have
denied king 5's interview requests and refused to answer our questions. they told taylor they
do plan to respond to the senators. >>> other countries have decided they are not only going to
review our work, but look at some other things of interest to them.
KXLY (ABC)
May 24 • 2:05 AM

B_MAY_WASH_93

an emotional moment earlier today --as a spokane valley woman came face-to-face with the ad-t dispatcher she says helped to save her life one month ago today. that's when "missy"
Robertson’s estranged husband stabbed her.. then abducted their son and ultimately killed
himself. missy says she wouldn't be here to share her story today if it weren't for her security
system --the dispatcher on the other line --and the quick response from the spokane county
sheriff's office.she got to meet all of those first responders today --in a special ceremony...
01:33:25:09 (5)"i can't thank them enough of course because obviously I probably wouldn't be
here if it hadn't been for them."a new report shows spokane county has a much higher rate of
domestic violence than the statewide average...you can find that story online at kxly dot com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 24 • 2:25 AM

B_MAY_OREG_122

steve: welcome back. the cdc says it is the second leading cause of death in kids 10 to 19 years
old. we are talking about suicide. >> deb: it is hard to think about, especially for parents. one
dad in seattle is taking action one sign at a time. >> chloe, can you help me put these together?
>> be the change you want to see. >> reporter: sometimes you have to dig deep and be bold.
>> every message helps. >> that's a good spot. >> reporter: that's what dad kobe wallace hopes
to do in this queen anne neighborhood. >> it is rooted in love. >> reporter: a few weeks ago he
started posting signs along the sidewalks near his daughter's elementary school. the messages
are simple. >> you are worthy of love. >> reporter: the message behind the message, don't give
124

up. >> you don't know what people are going through. >> reporter: it is a nonprofit that started
in Oregon and it is spreading to neighborhoods all-around the world hoping to inspire hope
according to the website. he says his goal is to get people talking about mental health. he is
especially concerned about suicide among young people. >> as a parent you feel helpless when
you hear these stories that this is happening. it is happening a lot, but nobody wants to talk
about it. >> reporter: you may be thinking it is a big topic for such a tiny audience. >> do not
give up. >> reporter: the words are not lost on the little ones. >> if you give up then you always
will not be good at something. >> it is definitely resonating with people. >> reporter: even other
parents appreciate the notion. >> what is wrong with having a positive message in general,
right? I mean, I think that's -- I think we need more of it. >> reporter: lately some of the signs
have been vandalized. that's why some neighbors are hosting them in their own front yards. >>
I can't think of anything that is better than you matter. >> reporter: we spotted more signs
sprodding up -- sprouting up a few miles away. >> it is contagious hopefully. >> reporter: to
become the change you want to see. >> I don't know where this thing ends. >> reporter:
sometimes you have to dig deep. >> for now, for today -- >> reporter: and be bold. >> this is
what we are going to do. >> deb: that was jaime tom -- thomkins reporting. you can buy 10
signs for $70. if you are having a tough time there is always someone to talk to at the national
lifeline. 1800-273-talk or text home to 741741 or chat online at suicide prevention lifeline.org.
KONG-SEA
May 24 • 7:26 AM

B_MAY-WASH_94

detectives in southern california, are stumped by a woman's body, rebecca was found dead
hanging in the home of her 54-year-old boyfriend. >> eight years ago, the death of rebecca was
ruled a suicide, was it? there are so many theories surrounding this case, people are trying to
figure out what happened. >> death at the mansion, it premieres june first. joining us now are is
lonnie comes. the details are quite disturbing. what has surprised you most about this case? >>
right when it broke in the media, it really caught my attention, here is a woman hanging
stripped naked with her hands bound behind her back. her mouth gagged and she's hanging
outside this balcony for everyone to see. what in the world happened to her. >> it was ruled a
suicide by police. >> how? >> that's one of the things we go into in the show. could she have
done this herself? where would she have done this? would she have wanted to kill herself at
this point? >> there was a message that was found near her, she saved him, can you save her?
>> it was painted on the door of the bedroom she hung herself from, officially the explanation.
looking at her writings in her journals, she was verbose. if you're going to commit suicide and
the last thing you're going to say on earth is something so succinct and cryptic. >> and in third
person. why aren't you talking about yourself if this is your suicide note? >> what's the time line
of this, her boyfriend's son was killed. >> she's living in a mansion on coronado island. she's
taking care of his son. two days before she's found hanging, he has this tragic fall and ends up
going into the hospital in a coma. at the time she dies, not just two days later, the son is still in a
coma. is it kerkted? these two deaths, two days apart in the same house. >> some people
looked at the boyfriend. another character involved in this case some how, right? >> there was
another individual at the actual crime scene staying in the guest house, which is the brother of
the boyfriend. >> how is all of this -- just from what we're talking about it seems pretty obvious
125

possibly right now. not a suicide, how was ruled a stewie side. >> no dna. >> in all of the crime
scene and all the things you'll see in the show, there's a lot of things that were involved in the
crime scene, no dna except for rebeccas. >> no dna found? >> no prints, no dna, other than
hers. >> the reason -- what they were saying is, we're going to throw victimology completely
out the window, they were saying she got a phone call which was actually a voice mail from the
boyfriend saying, the little boy was not going to walk and talk again. anything that happened
before that, you throw that away, she was so distraught, this is what the official explanation is,
she's so distraught at that message, that she went through this elaborate plan and committed
suicide. so many things about it don't add up. >> what would the message be, she saved him,
can you save her? >> that's one of the questions we talk about in the show. she saved him
could have been the son, because she called 911, she got him help. >> a big thing watching this
too, is how she was found hanging. >> how does one duct tape themselves hands in the back.
and then hop over the balcony. >> i'll tell you, I think you'll be surprised at what you find out.
there are a lot of questions in this case, as we started to dig into them. we got answers that
were not what we expected. >> we did a lot, we met with experts, tried it ourselves, and when
you could do this -- >> could you? >> you'll have to watch it yourself. >> we re-created the
crime scene, we built a second floor bedroom with all the right dimensions. >> the balcony
dimensions and did a lot of experiments. >> rebecca didn't live in this vacuum without knowing
other people. she had family and friends. what do they say of her mental state? >> her family is
adamant she did not commit suicide. they were in very close. the entire time her sister talked
to her, and they had been fighting all of these years to get it classified from a suicide to a
homicide. we can can look at her text messages and see her state of mind. she was
quarterbacking the family and she had to take people to the hospital and pick up people from
the airport. we talked with her sister, who was the last person to speak with her that we know
of, she was making plans, she was not showing any distraught behavior. >> no criminal
chargesive have been filed in connection with her death. is this considered a close case then?
>> as far as law enforcement, they have determined this to be a suicide. >> wow! >> one of the
things that's happening with a lot of these cases being brute to pod casts and television shows
and that kind of thing, you're almost crowd sourcing investigators again, right? new information
is found. are you hoping that maybe something will get out there, someone will remember
something. find something, or know something and come forward? >> that's one of the things I
do. I solve murders with social media. and I work with police departments and victim's families.
we tried that, it just -- it was so long ago, trying to see if anybody remembered anything. we got
a couple tips of somebody hearing a woman screaming that may have been related to it, but
you know, yeah, the biggest thing is, you have to put these cases into the light and maybe
something will get shown. >> you never know, years later, someone might start talking.
KEZI (ABC)
May 24 • 8:14 AM

B_MAY_OREG_123

As we head into memorial day weekend and remember those who have given their lives for this
country, we must not forget those service members who died by suicide and the families they
left behind. the tragedy assistant program for survivors...known as taps, was formed in 1994 to
provide support for those dealing with the death of a loved one in the military. the department
126

of veterans affairs reports about 20 veterans die by suicide every day. since 2011, as suicide
rates in the us armed forces increased, taps has created a program specific to those grieving the
suicide loss of a military member. dana o'brien/ veteran we decided to reach out and through
our youngest son, he recommended taps stitch reach out for help now. there's a lot of help out
there. military culture can make it difficult for those struggling to reach out... you can find more
information about the programs taps offers by phone 24 hours a day at 800-959-taps.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 24 • 9:04 AM

B_MAY_OREG_124

Oregon governor Kate Brown signed legislation on Wednesday that will require local jails to
provide the state with information about the people in their custody Conrad Wilson reports
Oregon hasn't comprehensively track information about inmates in County jails in a statement
governor Brown says it's important to have information about inmates in the health care they
receive earlier this year an investigation by the PD K knew W and the Northwest News network
found that since 2008 at least 306 people died after being taken to the County jail in Oregon or
Washington that information was previously unknown the news organizations also found that
70% of those who died had not been convicted of a crime the leading cause of death was
suicide the bill passed both chambers of the legislature with bipartisan support House majority
leader Jennifer Williamson sponsored the legislation she has for too long the state has been in
the dark about what's happening in its jails Williams and says the bill is an important step
towards much needed reforms.
KAPP (ABC)
May 24 • 9:30 AM

B_MAY_WASH_95

yesterday at Columbia basin college, a Memorial Day ceremony was held to reflect and
remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice. more than 5000 flags were placed in the
ground to remember the men and women who gave up their lives to protect ours. one speaker
touched on the subject of veteran suicide and gave a message to others who may be suffering.
(sirgio maxamilion rodriguez/veteran, to speak out and to not be afraid. if you're feeling down
and you're feeling alone, hey, we're all here.") to help combat the number of those who take
their lives, sue frost, a community member, donated $250,000 to the college. her plan is to
pledge a million-dollar endowment to support veterans and their transition to civilian life.
Root Sports Northwest
May 24 • 9:45 AM

B_MAY_WASH_96

as you know, there are so many men and women who served our country to come home and
have such a struggle to try to find their way. that they kill themselves. the suicide rate is
alarming. so I was there on wednesday night. I heard so many veterans talk about their
experiences and how they're finding the conversation among themselves so therapeutic and so
helpful that they can get through a tough time. they can get through a tough week. they can
help somebody out get through that tough time. get through that tough week. and begin to
127

connect days together where life is better. and the thing that they were saying on wednesday
night was Memorial Day weekend is such a tough weekend for so many of these men and
women because it's about those who are no longer with us. they're alive. their comrades who
fell are not and it's a very difficult weekend and day certainly since so many of us are
barbecuing and watching tv and indy 500, game seven in the eastern conference finals, we're
not at work. it's a theeree day weekend. so when nate comes in, want to give voice on what we
are thinking and what we should think and how we can help the men and women who served
honor those who are no longer with us. because that's what monday is all about.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 24 • 10:00 AM

B_MAY_WASH_97

bill king county sheriff's just giving us an update that they believe this is an apparent murder
suicide. we're a bother killed his 2-year-old son inside this home here behind us here in maple
valley. neighbors here in this community heading out to work waking starting their day to this
surprising news here in this community I can tell you out here on the scene maple valley police
joined by king county sheriff's major crimes units as they investigate what they're calling
apparent murder suicide again. let's take you to some video here and show you how this all
happened this house is located here at the corner of southeast 270 seventh place and two
hundred and 14th avenue here in maple valley the call came in around 10:00 last night and
police tell us that a woman who lives here with her boyfriend came home yesterday night and
her sign was unresponsive now. ambulances were called out here to the scene to try to help
resuscitate that young child. unfortunately, the child ended up dying now moments later
investigators came inside the home and that's when they found that woman's boyfriend also
dead inside. he had an apparent gunshot wound. they are still investigating exactly how that
young child was killed. but as you can imagine they say the mother was devastated and in shock
and absolutely in terror after learning that this has happened to her young child here we can
tell you that the center of this investigation has focused around the garage area here and
investigators say they will be out here for quite some time gathering as much evidence as
possible to figure out how this all happened. but again some sad news here in maple valley this
morning as we learn that this is an apparent murder suicide where a father killed his young son.
for now that's the very latest.
FM News 101 KXL
May 24 • 10:40 AM

B_MAY_OREG_125

police chase and shootout lane county yesterday morning get that he's trying to stop a stolen
pickup about 10 miles north you change the driver took off the suspect 34 year-old keep pace
and rammed the officers in their patrol cars as they fired their guns he ditched the stolen truck
took off on foot but he was caught a short time later are and assault victim thanks the operator
who saved her life miss c robertson live near spokane recently she woke up in the middle of the
night with her hands tied by her husband this he managed to break free and eventually hit the
panic button on their security for the he dt operator who received the alert called the house
husband answered he didn't know the password the operator got suspicious she contacted 9.1
128

while that was going on this robertson was stabbed and slashed by her husband dozens of
times later the husband killed himself a spokane tv station is reporting that the 80 th operator
who took that initial report flew 2000 miles this week to meet missy the woman she helps save
operators said she was glad to come out it was very emotional I out good for her to use that
sense again he does another password sums up here array of voices coming out.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 24 • 11:00 AM

B_MAY_WASH_98

right now we have some new information. and this just a tragic situation no more absolutely we
just talked to some neighbors out here who say they are shocked and heartbroken after
learning that this was an apparent murder suicide where a father took his 2 year old son's life
inside this maple valley home here behind us. investigators just wrapped up out here on the
scene within the last 30 minutes or so but let's tell you how this all happened and take you to
some video. the call came in around 10:00 last night. a woman arrived here at her home on
southeast 277 place and two hundred 14th avenue to find her son unresponsive. first
responders first responders tried to save that boy's life but were unsuccessful so after searching
the home here deputies found the boy's father dead in another room from a gunshot. it's
unclear at this point exactly how that child was killed? but police say they are not searching for
any suspects at this point. and neighbors say they are devastated after learning what
happened. take a listen. she had gotten home and at first was unable to find her boyfriend and
her child. and soon after dead at this time all the investigation is leading to a murder suicide.
they do not believe there is anybody outstanding. so all the police and fire trucks coming in and
you know it doesn't have an entire neighborhood. so we were out talking on the street
yesterday. neighbors are concerned with the people in the community. I have a feeling now
that maurice coming out is gonna be different. last night it was just I mean all we knew last
night was two and a half year olds. and it was I mean kind of heartbreaking. and back out here
live I can tell you that neighbors tell us that this is a fairly quiet community that this family stuck
to themselves and that there was really no commotion going on here. deputies confirmed that
and telling us that in the year that this couple has lived here in this home that they've never
been called out for any type of disturbance or issue but again the news here this morning police
telling us that this is an apparent murder suicide where a father killed his 2 year old son. for
now that's very latest here in maple valley wilson.
KIRO-AM (Radio)
May 24 • 11:05 PM

B_MAY_WASH_99

The death of a maple Valley man and his toddler son is being investigated as a murder-suicide
King County sheriff's sergeant right now it says a woman called 9.1 last night after she got home
she panicked when she couldn't find her two and a half-year-old son and her boyfriend we were
writing it could mean and she ended up locating her through that year-old stunned in the room
how you spoke with thought breathing the 30 year-old father was found in another room dead
from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

129

KOMO-SEA (ABC)
B_MAY_WASH_100
May 24 • 2:00 PM
two people are dead in maple valley and what police also say is a case of domestic violence. the
little boy is one of the ones dead. >> reporter: police tell us this all started after 10:00 last night
when they got a frantic 911 call from a woman at his house in maple valley. she told the 911
dispatcher that she found her two-year-old son not breathing. they sent paramedics to the
house and were unable, sadly, to revive that 2-year-old. the 30-year-old boyfriend, the father of
the child. they did find him in the garage dead from a gunshot wound and what appears to be a
murder suicide, here. we were talking to neighbors a short time ago. set we found that out on
facebook. the neighborhood facebook page. >> reporter: pretty shocking news for a
neighborhood like this. ah! >> reporter: detectives have been on the scene all day collecting
evidence. the medical examiner is leaving, and it will be the medical examiner who releases the
cause of death but we are told that the 2-year-old did not die from a gunshot wound but there
still has to be an investigation done. that facebook page where they communicate is where
they found out that, sadly, a two-year-old has lost his life.
KFXO (FOX)
May 24 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_126

I’m lee anderso the chase began the afternoon of may 9th on highway 97 between bend a
redmon the call came in as a suicidal subject driving impaired, who may have a gun deschutes
county sheriff shane nelson was first in pursuit in an unmarked car, and joined by officers from
Oregon state and bend polic they chased him onto cooley road, then o- b- riley, where speeds
reached 7 miles per hour. the driver then turned onto highway 20 heading back toward bend.
officers tried to force him off t road, but the driver swerved into oncoming traffic several time
sheriff nelson says he tried to box the suspect in, because he was a danger public safety. along
the way the suspect avoided spike strips, and road blocks ahead of where they thought he was
goin generally, the sheriff's office tries to have marked patrol cars lead in chases, but unmark
cars can still start a pursuit ### "anytime we pursue a suspect, we constantly want to balance
the benefit of the apprehension or stoppi ofthe suspect versus risk that it can create for public
safety. in this particular case the suspect was intoxicate and suicidal. and I felt there was a
significant public safety risk to the citizens we serve. the driver entered bend on third street,
turned onto butler market, then fourt it ended with him turning onto a deadend street,
crashing into parked bend police vehicle. the officer and police dog that were injure are now
back at work. th driver, nineteen year old zenl clairmont, of lake oswego faces fourteen
charges, including drivin under the influence, recklessly endangering, and criminal mischief his
arraignment's set for next thursday. the deschutes county sheriff's office reviews its pursuit
policies about every 3 year we have more of the dash cam footage and you can find a link the
policy on ou website, ktvz dot com.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 24 • 7:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_127

130

a man and young boy are dead in what police believe is a case of domestic violence in king
county. it happened last night in maple valley just southeast of Seattle. police say the two-yearold boy's mother called them saying she found her son unresponsive. police got there and
couldn't save the toddler. they found the boy's father, the mom's boyfriend, with a self-inflicted
gunshot wound to the head in the garage. it appears to be a murder-suicide. neighbors say they
are stunned. >> pretty shocking news for a quiet neighborhood like this. >> little bit. >> the boy
didn't die from a gunshot wound. an autopsy is being performed 9 victims have not been
identified and still looking for a motive.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 24 • 7:25 PM

B_MAY_WASH_101

On new york's west side a group of morning runners standing out today was the second day of
a seven-day series of 22 kilometre runs seven days seven runs travis ellis's group shepherds
men has had the same goal since 2014 when department of veterans affairs statistics showed
22 veterans died by suicide each day. so the runners carry an extra 22 pounds. it's just our goal
to identify as many of those in need along this route as possible a 2018 study by the v.a. found
a direct link between veterans who suffered repeated traumatic brain injuries and suicide so
the runs raise money for the share initiative at atlanta's shepherd center. allowing veterans to
attend at no cost. the share program is a veteran treatment program that's focused on mild
brain injuries often blast related injury and post-traumatic stress disorder. dr. rusty gore directs
the program for post 9/11 veterans like alan sweat injured by an ied blast in iraq in 2007 they
just kept getting worse and worse and worse the start. swift works with occupational therapists
like shannon schneider to overcome barriers to everyday things he used to be able to do with
ease and to pick up some new skills he expects to finish the program next month. the
shepherd’s men crew ended their new york run at the foot of ground zero on the washington
run a stop for reflection at arlington national cemetery. and we're going to place a wreath and
pair respects to mark gallagher. matt was a member of the eighty second airborne and
unfortunately lost his battle to these silent injuries of war and matt's brother is on our team
this mission. personal I had a good friend of mine marcus porter who committed suicide in iraq
and there's not a day that goes by that I don't think of him. the shepherd's main team keeping
up the pace through the last run in atlanta on Memorial Day when they'll pause with the rest of
america to remember an amazing group of people by the way tomorrow. Memorial Day
dedications continue at the museum of flight in took willa roughly 3000 people are expected to
attend the dedication of a new vietnam veterans memorial park.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
May 24 • 8:30 PM

B_MAY_WASH_102

a father and his two-year- old son are dead in maple valley in an apparent murder suicide. this
happened late last night at a home in southeast 2/77 place. as kiro seven reports when
deputies arrived they found a woman hysterical. and her son not breathing.>> it was a quiet
neighborhood it is kind of shocking to hear.>> this major crime scene stood out. it was the first
he could honestly remember in his neighborhood.>> with all the lights coming in. neighbors
131

heard the awful news last night that respondents are trying to save a two-year-old boy. and I
heard about it on facebook. this morning matt learned much more along with everyone else. >>
all investigated and is leading to a murder suicide. it was her girlfriend and boyfriend with yearover-year when the two-year-old boy it is not clear how exactly the boy was killed but the
father appears to bear some responsibility.it t was the 30 old man shot himself. the boy was not
shot. and found by deputies in different rooms. >> probably the worst scene you could go to.
we had our personal assistance deputies. teams out here with the >> the mother called my
mood one when she returned home last night but could not find her family at first. but was
distraught over the murder suicide involving her child and spouse. many in the neighborhood
were also distraught.>> our hearts really got to the family ryan abbott tells us that as far as you
new officers have never been called to this property before. it will be up to the medical
examiner to determine how that two-year-old boy died. the medical examiner also released the
identity of the father and son. in maple valley kiro seven news.
KBNZ
May 24 • 9:17 PM

B_MAY_OREG_128

this is 2019. it should t nobe something we whisper ouabt or we feel like we have a scarlet
letter. a lot of people are suffering. >> her ex-husband, thoracic surgeon dr. robert ashton
jumped off the george washington br 1idge8 days after ditheir rcvoe nawas fi lized.>> re thebe
had a en notein s hi pocketthat idsa, call my wife, with my name and number on it. >> she said
she did not see y anwarning signs. >> rob had never been diagnosed with depression or had any
heof t classic signs of severe depression that we learn about in medical school. >> over their 20
year marriage, they had two children. >> did you blame yourself at first? >> I blamed myself for
not seeing the potential signs. even though there were none. and I blamed myself for what I
perceived as a failure to protect my children from pain and that they had to live through this. it
was something I felt and still feel incredible blame and pain and sadness for. >> dr. ashton is
sharing her story in a new book "life after suicide." she hopes it will help other families in need.
>> I hope that when people read the book, that eyth come away with some knowledge and
comfort that healing is possible. >> you can get an excerpt from dr. ashton's book on inside
edition.com. if you or somebody you know needs help, contact the national suicide prevention
lifeline at 800-273 -8255.
KGMI News/Talk 790 (Radio)
May 26 • 2:35 PM

B_MAY_WASH_ 103

we want to turn now to Montana Senator Jon Tester he is the top Democrat on the veterans
affairs committee and he joins us this morning from Bozeman Montana he is also a working
farm which is that unique perspective I do want to get I get you on some of those terror issues
but this is of course memorial day weekend there were 4 veteran suicides at v.a. facilities in the
month of april alone there are about 20 day according to last tally I saw from la last year how
does this rate not slowing down well the bottom line is we've got to do more even once suicide
is too many margaret and though we have a bill center miranda night you really kind kate
mental health outside the box for the v.a. to be able to include things like yoga to include things
132

like the quiet therapy other things it did been proven to work for folks who have mental health
issues and also deals with tell health for rule areas like my state of montana another world
states around around the country but the truth is what we've done hasn't been enough
margaret we've got to do more that's why we need to get sent to iran my bill across the finish
line before able to do that it gives the v.a. some more tools get more to get more message out
there to builder to do with our veterans but we have failed so far there's no ifs ands or buts
about it congress has given the v.a. I think some good tools they use they need to step up if
greater than before and by the way the other thing that needs to be done as we need to
remove the stigma from this so that the people who do a prompt do come forward because
often times many of these suicides happen and the v they haven't they haven't taken measure
the access to the care right senator thank you for that.
KGW-POR (NBC)
May 26 • 9:23 PM

B_MAY_OREG_129

finally, tonight, on this Memorial Day weekend, those who serve. we want to tell you about a
little known program at the department of veterans affairs, the va, and a man there who is
helping veterans of combat readjust to civilian life. gabe gutierrez has the story o say can you
see >> reporter: u.s. navy veteran dave baird is good at expressing himself. and at listening >> I
started my career on fast attack submarines. I was a sonarman >> reporter: both skills serve
him well in his civilian job as a therapist and director of the spokane vet center in washington
state. its mission to help combat veterans struggling with ptsd and other health issues. baird
and his team do lots of talk therapy they also arrange activities trips. retreats >> relax >>
reporter: volunteer missions. >> they come in and they find that camaraderie that they have
been missing >> reporter: the vet center is part of the federal government's va 300 vet centers
nationwide a program that views mental health problems as natural emotional reactions to
traumatic combat experiences treatable through readjustment counseling >> getting back to
living again. that's what readjustment is. it's getting back to living. >> reporter: it's clear dave
baird is making a big difference >> dave baird was our counselor, and our life saver >> reporter:
he provided the center's free bereavement counselling to gary and kim after their son jerod
was killed in afghanistan >> it was a life line. >> reporter: listening to their interview, he tears
up vietnam veteran bob credits baird from saving his life from suicide. >> if it wasn't for dave, I
wouldn't be here >> reporter: what's at stake here >> it absolutely is life and death. >>
reporter: some of the center's vietnam veterans recently made a charity visit to the vietnam
war memorial in washington, d.c. for some, very emotional baird paid his own way to be there
for them helping this veteran locate a school classmate to baird, father of four and the son of a
minister, helping combat veterans begins with this >> truly, genuinely caring I might not know
the answers, but I’m going to stand right beside you, and we're going to look down the path
together. but they know they're not alone in it. and that makes it doable >> reporter: the va's
care for veterans, he believes, most effective when it's personal gabe gutierrez, nbc news,
spokane, washington.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 26 • 10:06 PM
133

a new study in the Journal of the American medical Association report suicide rates among preteen girls is rising come was Collin Johnson spoke with an expert Lisa Horowytz is a pediatric
psychologist and staff scientist at the National Institute for mental health not like a young
person and faith with their doctor I am thinking of killing myself so if someone doesn't act and
directly are you having thought of killing yourself and most likely aren't going to talk about it
social media influences doctor her with says the prevalence of bullying to the culprits for why
many teams struggle with depression and anxiety which can lead to suicidal thoughts even
children as young as 10 are having these thoughts some following through preaching girl Also
seen a 13% increase in suicide Dr Harlow OPIC a recent study in the Journal hospital Pediatrics
they screamed attended 12 year-old who came into the E.R. and from 30% screened positive
for suicide risk nearly 18% had previously attempted suicide some of the signs so watch for
include isolation anger anxiety and sadness.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 27 • 2:00 PM

B_MAY_OREG_130

Crowds remembering veterans of war are at Arlington national cemetery on this memorial day
at the tomb of the unknown soldier at wall they guard is changed every 30 minutes during the
spring and summer months and every hour during the fall winter the to has been guarded since
1937 memorial day observances include those for service members and veterans who died by
suicide Western States have the highest veteran suicide rates in the nation Montana public
radio's eric Whitney has to do it sam bradford with United veterans Council Western Montana
says that in recent years the organization has seen an increase in military families requesting a
Oil for loved ones who take their own lives last year he started helping to organize a memorial
day event for them lot of families felt grief and felt they needed some haven't how to
memorialize your falling and so we said Let's do a sunrise services exclusively dedicated that for
the families have been impacted by a suicide statistics from the veterans administration show
the Montana has the nation's 4th highest veteran suicide rate Wyoming is the highest followed
by Nevada and Idaho.
News Radio KEX
May 27 • 3:36 PM

B_MAY_OREG_131

A picturesque memorial day was first observed in 18 68 for the purpose of decorating graves of
Americans’ civil war yet but it's 4 runner came 5 years earlier when president Lincoln dedicated
a new national cemetery soldiers died at Gettysburg modern commemorations take many
forms but often celebrate bravery on the battlefield off the battlefield though it is now
estimated that 22 veterans die each day from suicide that tunes like don the stains son two
years ago I lost my son joshua loose lips seen him served in the navy for 5 years who died in
march on march 15th 2011 took his own life josh lip steen had planned to make the navy his
career until he returned from his second deployment to iraq complaining of hearing loss think
found that to earn his plane and he had surgery had it removed through it and then maybe the
stone played with the navy but he is waiting to be medically discharged because he couldn't
134

carry a weapon any longer not for he completely lost sharing in this trade year he became
addicted to opioids and just his mother my ex-wife died in february of 2011 and he too is seen
couldn't see the light of day a month after his mother died josh killed himself leaving behind his
dad and family of result he was married he has a 6 month-old daughter so a month after his
mom passed away he took his own it is just very depressed I think he just didn't have a whole
lot of hope this says he's good at you you're good you are in a low looking back and see it now
but they didn't see it as it was as it was happening but yeah I mean I knew he was struggling
with addiction I eat tonight did what I could to help him but he wasn't being very honest with
me either I wasn't being forthcoming with information and I don't know that he's being very
honest with you maybe his accuser hiding and visit either you were at the time absolutely
packed earth I was scratched and I am and I didn't know my whole world turned upside down
where to turn of his son's death left dawn feeling isolated and you needed it wasn't sure he
would even understands what it felt like to have a child who choose to claimants to iraq he
would send up to be in the 80s so he had courage and came home and I couldn't live with the
demons someone's mom I was very it was a struggle for me knows how to do it for me it's a
great question you can't do it and I don't think us to make and do it on their own I’m not so say
we've it's a lot more complicated mean no take beat is complicated but when you take into
account that somebody took their online they chose to die because they were used to treat
pain you know it's hard to comprehend richard selke can comprehend it is step son clay hunt
marine shot and killed himself in 2011 two there's an actual level of sadness square anybody
gets to earn it totally given up for more when this abc news special america remembers.
News Radio KEX
May 27 • 5:35 PM

B_MAY_OREG_132

according to the department of veterans affairs an average of 20 u.s. veterans commit suicide
just this past spring creek that took their own lives on the grounds of v.a. facilities to georgia
one in texas the reasons for the spike in suicides are multiple including cases of depression ptsd
and maybe not getting help many need to cope with life both in the service and after
deployment discharge this is something that plagues not just military officials but military
families abc sherry preston talk to an army wife who says the conversation about suicide is one
that scares her every day before we get to the serious stuff let's say you had jennifer jones met
her husband army captain scott leaking I actually pen pals when we met on his first deployment
in 2004 I wrote a letter and put it in a box that went out to iraq and may have been happy to
get the box the letters pulled one out decided to read thank you turned out to be me and we
became pen pals and decide we should meet and we've been together since the day we met
and that was 14 years ago jennifer how goes by jennifer jones lee and she is the host of wakeup call on kfi radio in los angeles the issue of veteran suicides and that number 20 per day is
one she says hits very close to home it's terrifying on one hand because I think to myself my
god I could easily be my husband on the other hand I’m so grateful that he and I are is open as
we are about certain things because if if something comes up about his experience in during
the war when he was in theater some which she rarely does but when it does he's really open
about talking about what makes me sad is otherwise that i've spoken to who kind of talking in
hushed tones about you know who hasn't had a nightmare last night like we're not supposed to
135

talk about it and that's that's the part that it really kills me it makes me sad honestly back to
scotland has been deployed twice something she knows changes something in those who say
error I think when they come back they're definitely a difference and there are different
because I noticed at least my husband's case he was very close he didn't shares much was
guarded so they can vote at the truck when he started up outside she would turn look at the
window like what is that often times we're not maybe wives are prepared enough when their
husbands come back as to what to expect it's things like maybe they are going to be startled a
little more easily or maybe taking them to the mall right away isn't the greatest idea or a
crowded restaurant is the greatest idea because you don't know what salah was or what even
lightly different lighting is going to trigger just a memory for them following deployment
returning to regular life can be a real struggle just for the men and women who served before
their partners to get one month when they come back to sort of decompress they go through
whatever they go through with the military but then it's back to their regular lives in how you're
gonna find a airy and we as civilians are not job hi you're going to cope I think those are all
things that trained enough on how to get that the military re-entry for our you know for our
soldiers there are classes for the soldiers upon re-entry but not so much the family case if that's
something jones lease says is slowly changing making even the discussion more difficulties the
reluctance but many service members have been talking about mental health issues I think they
really could be some extra outreach or some extra like kate your husband coming home even as
an email what to expect or where to go or what to call that might be really helpful and
generous says she and scott actually had an easier time than many families including scott's
father was also in the army his dad undoubtedly suffered from ptsd and was one of the things
that scott sort of noticed and learns from innocence he saw his father not talk about it we
would watch his dad take a nap on the couch he would rap is ahead in a blanket and shout out
at a time ends like what he was dreaming for something you knew he was going through stuff
and even though it had been suggested to establish came maybe should I talk too much I don't
need anybody on anybody I’m hoping that with the different generations and bit you know the
difference in what's acceptable to talk about what's not acceptable to talk about maybe more
that will come out maybe it has since his deployment but I have not taken any action myself
and I was like hat the and now we're talking about it maybe that's something I could have done
that could have helped others buses with to win it I definitely wasn't helped the more people
talk about ptsd depression and the difficult subject of suicide more jennifer jones lee and her
husband after scott lee hope things and the military will change coming up a look at group
helping veterans ease back into civilian life find new careers and this abc news special america
remembers continues.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 27 • 8:43 PM

B_MAY_WASH_104

when he never took him out of my arms and ever since those same arms have been drawn in
the faces of more than 6000 men and women who also died while serving our country vincent
was helping me send people home who died in war. this is michael's drawing including private
first class keith moore. his mother sue turley received reagan's portrait after keith died in iraq
in 2006 when I look into his eyes there I just see that he's clear he's determined this is what I
136

want and this is what I’m going to do is god willing anger her little rascal she says. keith was a
smart man. he loved football and fought for the underdog and believes serving his country was
a calling. keith felt it was his duty to give back. he was very conscious that as a white middle
class boy he had a lot of privileges and he was very smart and very intelligent, and he had a
good future but only weeks into a service during operation iraqi freedom. keith committed
suicide leaving behind a family and heartbreak. he was suffering beyond endurance anymore.
now regan's drawing is part of the memorial and turley thurston county home where kids
sacrifice of service is remembered wars kills in many different ways. and so I look at it that the
war killed my son too. that I know how they died. so I think about that regan says the process is
spiritual for each portrait and soldier and plans to continue his unique way of honoring their
sacrifice until the day he reunites with his old marine buddy vincent who he believes helped
him bring comfort and closure to thousands of families across our country. and vincent's going
to come up to me and he says we did a good job and we say yes we did it happens all right.
KOAB (PBS)
May 27 • 10:30 PM

B_MAY_OREG_133

reporter: sal " doc" chavez, a former navy corpsman with fox 2/5, has tried several therapy
programs, both at the v.a. and in private practices. he believes his 15-year struggle with p.t.s.d.
was responsible for his excessive drinking, fighting, divorce, and frequent thoughts of suicide.
>> we're seeing people that end up killing themselves because they never got the treatment, or
the treatment was ineffective in addressing their needs. >> reporter: dr. skip rizzo, a research
psychologist at u.s.c.'s institute for creative technologies, has been developing virtual reality
programs for engaging this generation of p.t.s.d. veterans in exposure therapy. >> the goal isn't
that just by going back to the scene of the crime, you're magically going to get fixed. the goal is
to activate those emotions and reprocess them. and to do it repeatedly and in that safe
context. >> reporter: with the help of dr. todd adamson, a former v.a. therapist, sal chavez
agreed to re-experience a particularly traumatic event we both were involved in during a
roadside ambush on fox 2/5's final approach to baghdad, when they suffered their first
fatalities, april 4, 2003. >> everything was on fire. it was loud, rounds were going off, you could
feel the percussions of the explosion. >> so how do you feel? >> a little tense. this is pretty
trippy. >> reporter: v.r. can never be an exact representation, but it's stimulating enough for
the vet and the therapist to work together more efficiently and to make the traumatic
experiences easier to deal with. >> so I had to find it within me to start making the hard choices
of facing myself, finding help and doing whatever I had to do to get healthy again. >> reporter:
kayne marzolla is working with other vets on .d. problems, and michael elliot is getting his
master’s degree in social work to do the same, as the marines of fox 2/5 continue their battles
with p.t.s.d. for the pbs newshour, I’m mike cerre reporting from san francisco.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 28 • 2:05 AM

B_MAY_OREG_134

deb: Memorial Day is a day to remember those who died in combat, but it is also important to
remember those who died by suicide after returning home. suicide rate among Oregon
137

veterans is more than double the national average of nonveterans. katu's catherine van is in
news control. suicide rates have been climbing for veterans and nonveterans. >> reporter: it is
not a new issue, but people are looking for new ways to tackle it. one man wants to help
veterans. >> we thank them for making the ultimate sacrifice, but there are deaths we briar -barely hear about. for yawn, Memorial Day is bittersweet. >> I remember I was about five -- I
know about five that committed suicide. those are just the ones I know. >> reporter: according
to the most recent data from the department of veteran affairs, the suicide rate martin luther
king Oregon veterans were 40 per 100,000 people. that's significantly higher than the suicide
rates than Oregon and double the rate of adult suicide rates nationwide. after 24 years in the
military, john even suffers from ptsd symptoms. >> for me it is hard to stay. I have anger issues
and little things get me angry and my wife and kids say this is normal. >> she starting a
nonprofit helping veterans to learn woodworking to give them a greater purpose. >> even
though their service has ended, they can also give back and as a way of counter -- counteracting
ptsd they are involved in a positive way. >> that non-profit is called operation sparring flags. he
is looking for fundraising opportunities and he is looking for areas to put his workshop in
wilsonville. catherine van, katu news. >> deb: if you are a veteran having a tough time or you
know one, there are people you can talk to who know what you have been through. call the
veterans crisis line at 800-873-2555. or text 873-2555 to get connected about a responder.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 28 • 3:49 AM

B_MAY_WASH_105

Clay hunt a Marine committed suicide in 2011 4 years earlier yet promising military career
ahead his stepfather Richard Selke told us how recruiters encouraged the bright young man
from texas to the officer school but Klay wanted to be in infantry men and he deployed to Iraq
in 2007 him and yet it was challenged he lost a lot of close friends very quickly early on was
there for 6 weeks and shot cash on hand here it's enough to to get out of here out of combat
but not enough to kill me and he gave was hard for him isn't immediately evacuated tech and
Germany well done back in california and the main thing was he won with this guy box him that
haunt him he hated Clay had been shot by a sniper and so his step dad said he decided to go to
snipers school he grew up on the screen ensuring a shrine wishing beer and he's going to use
crack shot is credible shop was deployed to Afghanistan who served 7 months and finished out
his time with him what the range was discharged honorably as a sergeant and really struggle we
have no idea v I think it's these 16 Marines and a Navy Korman were killed in combat in the
10000 square miles of Helmand Farah provinces where clays units patrolled he was a struggle
he told us he had with a wicked case PTSD and we know that once but he has been treated
forward Yeah he's doing with survivor's guilt he was doing was dealing with moral injury he was
doing film for which has a traumatic brain injury because of the explosions and thanks to the
door the launched off in 2011 Clay hunt died by suicide he tried to cope with his demons in part
through humanitarianism he found purpose in travel with other vets to post earthquake Haiti
and Chile and lobbying for veterans' care a cause his mother Susan Selke he took up when she
testified before Congress about the V.A. care her son received he received counseling no way as
far as a brief discussion regarding whether the medication he was prescribed was working or
not if not he would be given name medication place to say I’m a Guinea pig for drugs the that
138

beyond one thing all have side effects and make it beyond something else Clay story called
attention to the suicide rate among the nation's veterans and in 2015 President obama sign the
Clay hunt suicide Prevention for American veterans Act the decorated Marine you served with
distinction in Iraq and Afghanistan the measure created an online information source about
mental health services help the V.A. recruit more mental health care experts and gave veterans
more time to seek treatment for PTSD but in the last two years suicides in younger veterans
spiked during a short span in April 3 veterans took their lives on V.A. campuses including one in
Texas V.A. wait in a room we are losing 20 veterans a day to suicide I consider each of those just
as serious casualty of war congressman Max Roach who represents parts of Brooklyn and
Staten Island introduce legislation meant to address the uptick in veterans' suicides make
making sure that there's that they had access to mental health treatment comprehensive
integrated kid no matter who they're getting care from Rose's legislation would require the V.A.
to notify Congress of any suicide or suicide attempt within 7 days within 60 days the V.A. would
be required to provide more information about the treatment of that it had received it can't be
any silos to can't be any divides and walls built up between Congress and the cia he's averaging
91 itself this we should not lose 20 veterans day the V.A. has made Prevention a priority in
recent years and in 2016 the rate of veteran suicides dropped there was however an anomaly
the rate of suicides for young veterans 18 to 34 increased more than 10% we asked of dummies
country more we ask that any soldier history of our nation 18 years we've been at work coming
up multiple deployments I have friends who spend more time in combat they share with their
children and their children or 10 years old congressman rose this is deeply personal he's an
army combat veteran who was lost friends to suicide this is not theoretical thing to me did the
bond between soldiers and so strong and there's always going to be a group of soldiers who
feel like they failed feel like they missed something I cannot emphasize the degree to which I
consider this another casualty of war one that needs to be am deeply respected acknowledged
and we need to make every effort to prevent it coming up paying tribute to sacrifice a century
later this is an ABC news special.
KTVL (CBS)
May 28 • 9:16 AM

B_MAY_OREG_135

one in four women experience some form of the mystic violence and survivors are left to
deatrauma years later. jane has more. >> I called a cousin back home in georgia. he encouraged
me to leave. >> longtime tv anchor left an abusive marriage nearly 8 years ago but still suffers
from the trauma of domestic violence today. >> I saw couple arguing in a parking lot last week,
it brought back memories. >> a psychotherapist says that is not uncommon that survivors of
domestic violence suffer long-term. >> ptsd is a disorder that is caused by a traumatic event
that someone survives. >> she says one can see, hear, smell, and feel from touch something
that can trigger memories of violent experiences. >> many studies have shown their mental
health effects as a result of intimate partner violence such as clinical depression as a result of
feeling of results of hopelessness, suicidal ideation, and suicide attempts. >> to work through
these long- term effects, survivors must first acknowledge they need help. >> by telling my
truth, I help others but I continue to help myself and realize it was not my fault. >> experts

139

recommend finding a counselor and other means of support to reach out to. you can also
contact the domestic violence national hotline. the number is on your screen.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 28 • 9:32 AM

B_MAY_OREG_136

now a push to remember fallen veteran year around. >>> we honor the American men and
women who died in combat yesterday but now a local vet is urging us to remember those who
died by suicide after they return home. retired air force captain tells us five of his friended died
by suicide after serving. according to the department of vipr radar e-veterans affairs the suicide
rate among Oregon veterans was 40 per 100,000 people. that's double the rate nationwide. >>
our young americans are -- you hadn't expect the -- sleep deprivation, alcoholism. >>> john is
starting a non- 0 that will help veterans learn woodworking. right now, they're fund-raising and
looking for a place to hold workshops in wilsonville. >>> if you are struggling there's help
available. call the suicide prevention lifeline or text home to 74141.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 28 • 12:31 PM

B_MAY_OREG_137

welcome back to am northwest. one mansion, two deaths and countless questions. the new
true crime series death at the mansion, rebecca is a how takes a deep dive into the case trying
to uncover new details pick >> to texas of southern california are stumped of the discovery of a
woman's body at her boyfriends mansion who 32-year-old rebecca is a how was found dead
hanging in the home of her 54-year-old boyfriend pharmaceutical tycoon jonas. her death came
just days after her son will down the stairs and suffered fatal injuries to. >> did she face suicide
because she felt responsible for the death? or was this a murder? >> we are going to look at
this case and whatever we come up with. >> this is more consistent with manual strangulation
here. >> we are going to take this to the sheriff. >> have you ever seen a suicide note written in
third person? >> this is not a suicide, someone did this tour. >> this case is so frustrating is you
don't know if it a bad guy at the end of the story. >> welcome to a.m. northwest legal analysts
and director. good morning to the two of you. let me first ask you this is got to be the most
fascinating cases you have ever looked into here. >> I thought, what in the world happened to
this poor woman. there's no way this is a suicide and as a former prosecutor I wanted to look
into it and say why did they determine this to be a suicide? what is the evhere? could it be
something else? >> rebecca's family is adamant it is not a suicide. >> that's right, they have
been vocal since the very beginning. we speak to the family and we talk to them and find out
the feelings but also find out about rebecca. they have maintained all along that their sister
rebecca would not have done this. >> paul look at this. I’m an armchair detect of. here's my
analysis. every show says the person who discovered the body or the significant other is usually
the murder. tell me what your thoughts are on that because jonah, the boyfriend, the
millionaire boyfriend is at the hospital with his son meanwhile, his brother is with rebecca.
something is going on there as an he's jealous or what the story is. tell me more. >> when I
initially got involved with this case and I’m taking a look at the crime scene photos, having
worked many homicide cases and suicide cases, hearing about the local authorities had ruled
140

this a suicide, my initial thoughts were this does not look right to me. so, we are fortunate in
this show that we had unprecedented access to the case files and crime scene photographs, to
the autopsy report. I was able to do a deep dive and explore the various theories. is this a
suicide forces a homicide? if it's a homicide, how do we resolve the various issues with the
people who were involved in her life. if it was a suicide, she able to accomplish this herself?
that's what we do is try to determine and tease out the various theories and we take the
viewers along for this active investigation as we proceed down both paths. >> why is it that the
police ruled a suicide? >> initially the actual ruling of suicide comes from the medical examiner
office. corn nor corner is the one that resolves the death. from what he saw of her injuries and
the information he got from the authorities and the history that happened two days prior with
her boyfriend’s son, max, falling, they end up ruling suicide as san diego sheriff's office had their
homicide team investigating this. at this point, now you have an official ruling of suicide and the
homicide at that point in time anything that would change the corner or medical examiner's
opinion to homicide. >> I understand that rebecca was a prolific writer. she loved to write it was
there a suicide letter? I’m sure that would be the case eventually was suicide. >> that was a big
key piece of information in this case. on the door to the room where she was hanging from,
there was a riding, almost a taunt or threats, what is that relyand why would that be considered
a suicide note? that's something we would look inside also. >> I understand that the family filed
a civil kate case and one against the brother. >> they found that the brother was liable civilly for
rebecca's death and rewarded money damages to the family. >> what were you able to find out
that initially police investigators weren't able to find out. you said that you looked into her tax
and things that the police officers and detectives didn't know abat the time. what were you
most proud of that you found out at the time? >> I ended up taking a look at this case from a
broad perspex perspective. I took a look at the materials and the crime scene aspects and was
able to find some detail that I thought the local authorities needed to revisit and reassess their
stance on this case. that's what the viewers are going to see as they watch the show. they are
going to have to watch the show and find out what I see as I march through this case. >> it
really is fascinating. we want everyone to check out the true crime series death at the mansion,
it's this saturday. thank you so much.
KDRV (ABC)
May 28 • 2:20 PM

B_MAY_OREG_138

two elementary school students are dead after a knife attack in japan. seventeeen others are
injured. julia macfarlane is in london, with more. japanese knife attack-pkg in japan - every
parent's worst nightmare children waiting for the bus to school - attacked by a man wielding a
knife 18 people injured after the attack, which took place in a town outside the capital tokyo
two of the victims, believed to be an 11 year old girl and her 39 year old father all of those
wounded, were between six and twelve years old witnesses described a harrowing scene, the
moment the attacker killed himself after his bloody rampage nat sot - japanese this man saying:
I saw a man holding a knife in each of his hands ... he then stabbed himself and collapsed on the
ground." and this man saying he heard screams...people collapsing...and the children's white
shirts turning crimson, with blood.

141

KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 28 • 3:30 PM

B_MAY_WASH_106

your company produces documentary rain called it's not that funny about how anxiety
depression and suicide effect comedians where did the idea come from you know it's mental
health month and it's something that this company mind soul pancake its digital media
company we've been wanting to deep into more it's an epidemic among young people a plague
of anxiety depression and suicidal ideation newt he talks the talk to young people anyone under
25 or 30 especially in their teens and maybe one out of 3 suffers from some form of us it's why
especially young people for um I have my theory is but they're very un perfection hole for me
they're not I’m not a psychologist or anything like that it's something we need research more
but I think we're more disconnected I think there's a lot more generalized hopelessness I think
that screens have a great deal to do with it and the kind of incessant diversion from boredom
and from the negative feelings and that can become a suit and medicated with the little screen
in a game that in your pocket and social media to has a big heart of it where we feel like we're
more connected but it's fake you know we need to we're ba we need to be body's in rooms
together or bodies outside in nature together we can say it's a fake kind of community that you
build on social media what is this half do you have sarah silverman wayne brady racial blown it
comedians or comic actors q what's the connection between anxiety depression and funny well
that's what we're exploring we wanted to find at sole pancake and we we deal with some
pretty heavy issues and we try and find it entertaining way am so we wanted to interview is
that there's always these legends about the self-destructiveness of comic and depression and
suicide and whatnot so we just wanted to go straight to the source and be like what's the deal
payer here's some of the world's funniest people like what's going on with you guys and
depression and suicide in and addiction so all of them are either anxious or depressed
advancers some are some aren't and I think it's a lot a lot about shattering the myths
surrounding around comedy that you don't to be a comedian to be a comic actor you don't
have to be self-destructive right and that yourself destructive impulses are not necessarily the
ones that give you a year com communiqu inspiration so it's a lot of shattering the math but
also having some honest conversations where you have some performers do really suffer from
this and so young people watching can feel like they're not alone that's a big part of it is that
people that are suffering from anxiety depression they sometimes everyone look around the
everyone seems really hot being getting along great and look on social media never looks
pretty.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
May 28 • 9:18 PM

B_MAY_WASH_ 107

just joining us my guess the two authors of the new book the stressed years of their lives
helping kids survive and thrive during their college years that Anthony rusting is a professor of
psychiatry and pediatrics at the university of Pennsylvania’s perelman school of medicine he
practices at the university and children's hospital of Philadelphia that would be janet hips is in
private practice and family and compost therapy the college years coincide with the years that
142

some mood disorders start to express themselves or express themselves more for only and so
like that can be a very negative interaction I like there you have to say about how that's
affecting students now but 25% of kids arrive on campus today on prescription psychoactive
medications and part of the difficulty I think for parents is snowing quakes school which college
support systems are going to be adequate to meet an ongoing mental health need and other
students at you know really have perhaps a series of the many make it the unfortunate events
that propels them in to a mental health problem a substance abuse problem and eating
disorder order that may have been some clinic called the floor and then emergency in college
nobody really has eyes on them unless there are already hard to have a willing to be part of the
support services said colleges offer so colleges offer more and more and more support services
they have really tried very seriously to rise to the occasion of helping kids in this kind of sky
rocketing epidemic of anxiety depression and also mood disorders so to add to what you said
be there's some startling surveys that showed that among students who endorse suicidal
ideation suicidal thoughts on a regular basis only about one in 4 go for help the other 3 out of 4
say things like well I can handle this myself or it's not probably not that bad or I don't have time
and wishing that eventually will just go away on its own like a bad cold now it may be true that
for some students they're able to plow through and avoided in a disaster but unfortunately
would be and I have seen too often is waiting too long to acknowledge and away staying in that
state of denial not because you're deliberately doing so because you really don't want to have
to face maybe having to take care of this or even worse maybe having to leave school because
you just can't function you know you're so much a part of the community when you're in
college and the thought that gee I can't function anymore and I may need to take a break that's
hard pill to swallow so to speak doctor hatchell attack a few about your experience with your
son we call jensen in the books so stick with the name jensen so and after resting you treated
him after he came home from college so that gives the senate to take a medical leave from
college this is doing his first spring break correct what did he tell you about why he felt he could
no longer stag he told me that his friend told him he had to tell us they say mr. parents because
kids usually tell their friends first he said I can't go back and I asked him are you scared you're
going to hurt yourself and he said yes I’m having suicidal thoughts it won't go away and I’m
scared to go back which then started a conversation into down and then that 45 minutes before
his flight was scheduled to take off the red cruz leaving go back to college yes and I called my
husband and because I thought this is not my decision alone to make meanwhile money mind
was shredding every bit of like a dad I ever processed about suicide risk and arguing with myself
for not strictly proud of all the arguments like will lose money and like us can I just finish but
when my husband came in and was characteristic of these kinds of decisions is like parents
often are polarized between the mother bear I was like I got to protect my kid and then you
know father groff their own come on suck it up you can just do this for another like 6 weeks and
we were polarized.
88.5 KNKX
May 28 • 9:40 PM

B_MAY_WASH_108

if you're just joining us my guess the two authors of distressed years of their lives helping
children survive and thrive during their college years dr. anthony rusting is a professor of
143

psychiatry in pediatrics at the university of pennsylvania's perelman school of medicine he
practices at children's hospital of philadelphia and the university backed be janet hips is a
psychologist in private practice and family income of therapy their focus is both an adviser
spoke with a lot of case studies in it but it's also the story of dr hamza and her son and how he
left college on medical leave because of severe depression and also suicidal thoughts said after
hips getting back to your son we call jensen in the book after he won home even college on
medical leave eu are trying to encourage mother at a community college you won't have to
leave home won't be stressed phone and so it is driving him to his first day of college and he
decided to run again curry doesn't want to go it's just too stressful you had a big decision to
make the spot about hannah how to handle it tell us what you decided in lion so I think it could
be that I decided for the first time in my life to be a tough love mother and it was counterfeit
anything i've ever done I always based my parenting on best practices best research practices
best like unborn and support with high expectations instead of you must do this I don't care
how upset you are take you know taken and van to get yourself out of what was in a panic
attack ice I told him you're just being treated we met through a back and forth for about 5
minutes it was very tough it rainy day we were stuck in a long line of traffic and driven in there
because I was scared he might step out in traffic because he was still very depressed but one of
my re-launch goals was the land and the feat with structure he needs more structure he can't
just be at home he needs to be out in the world again and so it goes with that idea that he
needed a specific plan to get back to be in the world again that I came up with the courage to
just say you need to try this you don't have to take the class if you don't like ted but you have to
try it you'll not know how it is unless you try it and then about half his size I shoved to shell out
of the car and he did and I felt this enormous you know exhaustion and then as sometimes
happened on those days about 3 hours later he came home very chipper going I really like the
philosophy professor of bamako do architect journeyman okay that's good you're so afraid for
suicidal thinking you afraid he's going to step into traffic yes that's your level of fear yes at the
same time you're pushing amount of the car going against the community conference saying
you're going yes you taking a medication to come near panic attack yes you're going so were
you terrified at the moment that maybe you were doing the wrong thing this is a change of
course for you to say you must do this I was terrified for over a year but in movements of the
city I am ahead goals that I thought would help him re launch and I wasn't afraid that at that
morning and once he got inside the class anything bad would happen and I trusted that as we
told you before if you're scared call me I come pick you up she dead a few times he be at a train
station late at night I am scared I’m looking for tracks we've come and pick him up and that was
when the suicide they hit chronic suicidal ideation who he hated he did not want to kill himself
he told us he told me repeatedly I don't want to I have no plan I can help these thoughts they
were very intrusive thoughts interesting you have just let the medical profession have any
explanation for this like excessive suicidal thinking when the person who was thinking this way
doesn't really want to end their life yeah so first vault depression itself robs people of a sense of
hopefulness so in a way I mean we are a lot to my mentor dr. erin beck who kind of identified
hopelessness in and of itself cou really raises the risk of suicide so we've got someone feeling
sad loss of interest in things all of the kind of classic signs of of depression when you begin to
think this is never going to get better I have this unending pain ahead of me and the
hopelessness takes over that's when the thought of suicide stepson and offers your way out so
144

in those situations when we think about with jensen was describing is he didn't want to feel this
way but it was almost like he felt no other hope for me but death at the same time there's also
a sub group of individuals which he fits into court generally ruminative people anyway you get
intrusive thoughts like back there are some people who get intrusive thoughts to cut
themselves or intrusive thoughts to do other risky things so that's not quite the same but the
two are linked together does pose a dilemma because even though his rational mind says I’m
you know I’m okay I’m here I’m okay some other part of him that is insisting on no I’m not ever
going to be better that's hopelessness and the image the vision of the way out becomes almost
like a fixation so we talk about fixations and we tried to get patients to verbalize them and then
to begin to come up with scenarios what you do when you're stuck in that mind-set because
there are ways to distract yourself calling for help having music doing things to get to out of
that danger zone where you're really beginning to feel like why me actually take the next step
beyond thinking about this and then actually act in that direction so we've done this interview
kind of two parks part talking more generally about the stresses on students college students
and their parents face during college years no attacks specifically after hips about your son in
your story trying to help him and sometimes during the bronx he and dr. spanier working in
treating dr. have a son to dr. s.k. as somebody who is a bit of an outsider here and in the end
after his son's story um what some take-aways use c4 where there parents of college-age
children for other college age students who are listening now I mean the example of that after
him gives is a little extreme because your son was diagnosed with a form of bipolar and also
had no excessive suicidal thinking.
KPLU-FM (Radio)
May 28 • 9:45 PM

B_MAY_WASH_109

You're so afraid of suicidal thinking you afraid he's going to step into traffic yes that's your level
of fear yes at the same time you're pushing him out of the car when against the community
colleges saying you're going yes you're taking medication to connor panic attack yes you're
going so what are you terrified that moment that maybe you're doing the wrong thing this is a
change of course for you to say you must do this I was terrified for over a year but in
movements of lucidity I am head goals that I thought would help him re launch and I wasn't
afraid that at that morning and once he got inside the class anything bad would happen and I
trusted that as we told you before if you're scared call me I come pick you up she dead a few
times he be at a train station late at night I ain't scared I’m looking at the tracks we come and
pick him up and that was when the suicide we can chronicle suicidal ideation could she hated
he did not want to kill himself he told us he told me repeatedly I don't want to I have no plan I
can't help these thoughts they were very intrusive thoughts I only dressed and you have just let
the medical profession have any explanation for this like obsessive suicidal thinking when the
person who was thinking this way doesn't really want to end their life yeah so first vault
depression itself robs people of a sense of hopefulness so in a way I mean we have a lot to my
mentor dr. henry beck who who who kind of identified hopelessness in and of itself the cou
really raises the risk of suicide so we've got someone feeling sad loss of interest in things all of
the kind of classic signs of of depression when you begin to think this is never going to get
better I have this unending pain ahead of me and the hopelessness takes over that's when the
145

thought of suicide stepson and offer your way out so in those situations when we think about
with jensen was describing is he didn't want to feel this way but it was almost like he felt no
other hope for me but death at the same time there's also a sub group of individuals which he
fits into who are generally ruminative people anyway you get intrusive thoughts like that I’m
there are some people get intrusive thoughts to cut themselves or intrusive thoughts to do
other risky things so that's not quite the same but the two are linked together does pose a
dilemma because even though his rational mind says I’m not you know I’m okay I’m here I’m
okay there's some other part of him that is insisting on no I’m not ever going to be better that's
hopelessness and the image of division of the way out becomes almost like a fixation so we talk
about fixations and we tried to get patients to verbalize them and then to begin to come up
with scenarios what do you do when you're stuck in that mind-set because there are ways to
distract yourself calling for help having music doing things to get to out of that danger zone
where you're really beginning to feel like why me actually take the next step beyond thinking
about this and then actually act in that direction so we've done this interview kind of two parks
part talking more generally about the stresses on students college students and their parents
face during college years no attacks specifically after hips about your son in your story trying to
help him and centers during the bronx dr. spanier working in treating dr. have a son said dr. s.k.
as somebody who is a bit of an outsider here and and and after his son's story um what some
take-aways use c4 or they're parents of college-age children for other college age students who
are listening now I mean the example of that after him gives us a little extreme because your
son was diagnosed with a former bipolar and also had books you know obsessive suicidal
thinking with I think that's the kind of foreign of what parents have to deal with though about
parents have to contend with well to start with I think growing up is a complicated process and
we all have to recognize that we're all still going through changes parents have to adapt to the
idea of their child growing up and of letting go and if they're anxious about it to try to figure out
why and to be more mindful about their reactions to try to be less reactive and more
responsive when things are not going has hoped for okay it's fine your kid goes off to school in
their successful everybody feels good but what if there's a setback what if things don't go as
planned how do you prepare yourself for that by simply reminding yourself that there is no
straight line through life and you know I shared my own story in the book where I had to leave
college for a while and it really save my life okay because I was all all gone whole about going to
college and I wasn't prepared for it and fortunately I could take the time was the second thing I
want to say is time off may help sometimes it's better to just take a step back get your your
your game back to where you want to see and the third is don't be afraid of of getting help
from mental health professional we're here to work with you and with your kids and we're not
here to blame you were to continue we know and so many parents face this fear of shame or
embarrassment to the stigma and what we think is the most deadly thing of all is not a mental
illness but the stigma around if that leads people to avoid getting help intolerant I want to
thank you both so much that ahead dr spain thank you thank you pleasure thank you for having
us.
KOPB-FM (Radio)
May 28 • 10:44 PM

B_MAY_OREG_139

146

He needs more structure he can't just be at home he needs to be out in the world again and so
it goes with that idea that he needed a specific plan to get back to be in the world again that I
came up with the courage to just say you need to try this you don't have to Did take the class if
you don't like it but you have to try it you'll not know how it is unless you try it and then about
half his size I shoved to shell out of the car and he didn't and I felt this enormous in Dohuk
exhaustion and then it has sometimes happened on those days about 3 hours later he came
home very chipper going I really like the philosophy professor Bamako and do our architecture
human okay that's good your show afraid for suicidal thinking you afraid he's going to step into
traffic Yes that's your level of fear Yes at the same time you're pushing him out of the car when
he cast the community conference saying you're going Yes you taking a medication to congre
panic attack you're going so why are you terrified at that moment that maybe you're doing the
wrong thing this is a change of course for you to say you must do this I was terrified for over a
year but in those moments of lucidity I am ahead goals that I thought would help him re launch
and I wasn't afraid that at that morning and once he got inside the class anything bad would
happen and I trusted that as we told you before if you're scared call me I come pick you up she
dead a few times he be at a train station late at night I ain't scared I’m looking at the tracks we
come and pick him up and that was when the suicide we can Chronicle suicidal ideation preach
he hated he did not want to kill himself he told us he Tony repeatedly I don't want to I have no
plan I can't help these thoughts they were very intrusive thoughts I owe us stand you have just
let the medical profession have any explanation for this like obsessive suicidal thinking one
person who was thinking this way doesn't really want to end their life Yeah so first of all
depression itself robs people of a sense of hopefulness so in a way I mean we have a lot to my
mentor Dr. Erin Beck who kind of identified hopelessness in and of itself really raises the risk of
suicide so we got someone feeling sad loss of interesting things all of the kind of classic signs of
of depression when you begin to think this is never going to get better I have this unending pain
ahead of me and the hopelessness takes over that's when the thought of suicide stepson and
offers your way out so in those situations when we think about jensen was describing is he
didn't want to feel this way but it was almost like he felt no other hope for me but that at the
same time there's also a sub group of individuals which he fits into the court generally
ruminative people anyway and who get intrusive thoughts like that I’m there are some people
get intrusive thoughts to cut themselves are intrusive thoughts to do other risky things so that's
not quite the same but the to link together does pose a dilemma because even though his
rational mind says I’m not you know I hope I’m here I’m okay there's some other part of him
that is insisting on no I’m not ever going to be better that's the hopelessness and the image of
the division of the way out becomes almost like a fixation so we talk about fixations and we
tried to get patients to verbalize them and then to begin to come up with scenarios what you
do when you're stuck in that mind-set because there are ways to distract yourself calling for
help having music doing things to get to out of that danger zone where you're really beginning
to feel like why Me actually take the next step beyond thinking about this and then actually
packed in that direction so we've done this kind of two parks part talking more generally about
the stresses on students college students and their parents face during their college years the
attacks specifically after hips about your son and your story trying to help him sometimes
during the bronx he and Dr. Christine you're working in treating Dr. Higgs assigned seductress
stand as somebody who is a bit of an outsider here and after his son's story Um what some
147

take-aways use c4 parents of college-age children for other college age students who are
listening now I mean the example of that after him gives is a little extreme because your son
was diagnosed with a form of bipolar and Osso head with no obsessive suicidal thinking and he
think that's the kind of far and what parents have to deal with a lot of parents have to contend
with them well to start with I think growing up is a complicated process and we all have to
recognize that we're all still going through changes parents have to adapt to the idea of their
child growing up and letting go and if they're anxious about it to try to figure out why and to be
more mindful about their reactions to try to be less reactive and more responsive when things
are not going has hoped for okay it's fine your kid goes off to school in their successful
everybody feels good but what if there's a setback what if things don't go as planned how do
you prepare yourself for that by simply reminding yourself that there is no straight line through
life and you know I shared my own story in the book where I had to leave college for a while
and it really saved my life okay because I was all gone whole about going to college and I wasn't
prepared for it and Fortunately I could take the time was the second thing I want to say is time
off may help sometimes it's better to just take a step back get your game back to where you
want to eat and the third is don't be afraid of getting help from mental health professional
we're here to work with you and with your kids and we're not here to blame the word and then
you know and so many parents face this fear of shame or embarrassment to the stigma and
what we think is the most deadly thing of all is not a mental illness but the stigma around it that
leads people to avoid getting help in time I want to thank you both so much that could hit after
Spain thank you a detailed a pleasure thank you for having us.
KMVU (FOX)
May 29 • 1:05 AM

B_MAY_OREG_140

Legislation focused on preventing youth suicides in oregon... was signed into law today by
governor kate brown. senate bill 52... or "adi's act" ... requires school districts to plan how to
address and prevent suicides among students. the legislation is backed by the family of adi
staub... a transgender Portland student who died by suicide in 2017. a second bill -- senate bill
485 -- requires school districts, colleges and universities to notify the Oregon health authority
when a student dies in a suspected suicide. the bill also requires the o-h-a to work with those
schools to develop a way to respond.
KXLY (ABC)
May 29 • 2:21 AM

B_MAY_WASH_110

we're learning more about last night's fatal stabbing attack in tokyo... two victims were killed in
the attack... they were a 12-year- old girl and a 39-year-old man. 17 others were wounded in
the process... 16 of them elementary school children the attacker was detained... he died as a
result of a self- inflicted stab wound ahead of Memorial Day... the army wanted to hear stories
from veterans about how their service has impacted them. instead of positive responses, many
discussed struggles with p-t-s-d, depression and suicide. local vets say if you or someone you
know is struggling with the return to civilian life... there is help. the local v-f-w is a center for

148

those who serve in the military. veterans at the organization say the minute that thoughts turn
dark... it's time to seek help.
KTVL (CBS)
May 29 • 9:02 AM

B_MAY_OREG_141

Japanese police today raided the home of man suspected in knife attack against schoolgirls and
others this week. that had two people dead before he killed himself. the attack near Tokyo into
they has raised concerns on how children can be protected on their way to school. officials said
the knife wielding man ran while flushing a group of schoolgirls and their parents walking to or
waiting at a bus stop in Kawasaki, killing 11-year-old girl and a 39-year-old man before fatally
slashing himself. at least 17 people were injured. prime minister Shinzo Abe urged security
official to increase safety measures.
KVAL (CBS)
May 29 • 3:15 PM

B_MAY_OREG_142

a new study suggests reasons why a jump in teenage suicides. researchers found suicide rates
among 10 to 19-year-old girls rose 22% in the three months after the show was released. they
went up 12 1/2% among boys in the same age range. netflix faced criticism for the graphic
portrayals of bullying, rape, and suicide. the producer penned a guest column saying other
independent research shows a positive impact on bullying.
FM News 101 KXL
May 29 • 6:35 PM

B_MAY_OREG_143

welcome back alarm his lies and joe well you know I have a dog in the fight on this one I don't
have any really direct personal experience with suicide but when I see folks writing about
rational suicide those two words put in the same sentence rational so aside and perhaps society
should start talking about mom rational those sides versus irrational and suicide being treated
as a terminal illness I’m not in favor of suicide I’m actively opposed to a friend came to me and
said i've been thinking about suicide I would do what I could to talk them out of it I even do that
for a stranger not even a friend so I read this piece by wesley smith about the focus on suicide
prevention were eroding and help medicine in the modern world is trying to find good reasons
to say it's okay to commit suicide wesley welcome back to the program this is a stunning kind of
argument that's being made thank you martha hello to your audience you know i've been
covering these assisted suicide euthanasia movement for 26 years which was pretty shocking to
me because I never expected to be involved in that and that issue this long I and all that time I
have noticed that he had once a small above commitment also cited suicide prevention has
been eroding and one of the reasons for that I think is the promotion of assisted suicide itself I
mean it is a promotional sums of assad so once you accept the idea that assisted suicide or
euthanasia is an acceptable answer to the difficulty of terminal illnesses were and some places
disability and mental illness from his employer no longer an anti-suicide society yet most your
name I saw him he reflects a diving catch them all flow in the mental health professionals
149

psychiatrists koji social work etc so there has been a majority but a growing view as you
mentioned in the introduction that comes to the floods are rational and those should not be
opposed that the purpose of a mental health professional or any rational suicide if they help
suicidal person go through decision-making process that is an impulsive and that isn't just based
on a whim but that these two-sided be bad that affect mental health professional has a rational
I mean applying a mental health professional own personal bad you've then you dad's suicide
should be permitted and perhaps even facilitated irrational suicide for to say a teenager who
whose boyfriend leaves her money she wants to kill yourself should be opposed they say I am
for that's an example of an irrational to the side you also see that him need a suicide prevention
campaign becoming with some exceptions obviously increasingly left they've all left because
the media seemed less interested in metta issue and more interested in be more provocative
issue promoting assisted suicide doing a story about suicide going away party is like the new
York times without its front page the l.a. times is donna others and so you find yourself in a
situation where I don't think we can call yourself an anti-suicide culture anymore knowing and
to me Wesley and know people sometimes tell me that I’m to black and white but hey I don't
think you can be a little bit in favor of suicide anymore than you can be a little bit pregnant it's
it's either in favor of every or you're not and once you start down that road is like the old
church children oak about the young lady says your show you're suggesting a prostitute nieces
know we've already established that we're just negotiating the price in this case you have a
society that says well we used to be against all suicides now we're in fear we're actually in favor
of some of them but only the right ones and you leave it up to us they know these people I
guess the people of society decide which ones are justified in which ones are gone right and
and good for the think people would say why you can't be black and white and everything is
gray would never say that about smoking just as one example I also of course we can be black
and white there's nobody out there saying you know we would prefer that you not small but if
you decide to so please use a filter cigarette at a time how you doing anti-smoking campaign
you do an anti-smoking campaign with an unequivocal message that smoking is bad for your
health that can cause cancer that makes you think and so forth the shouldn't have to be true so
aside you cannot you know the idea here that we want to god I hate this article I wrote in the
review new era of advocates and else saying well we shouldn't even call it commit suicide
because the term commits suicide imply that the sony full roots wrong we don't want you know
a good cause people stigma how bob you wanna say people why it's you know one of the things
that saves lives and our art is tear pressure the way people perceive that they will be pushed
sweet if you turn still fighting to just two choices like any other wife decision are how they've
ever been we might make it then you're going to end up with want people committing suicide
because they will.
FM News 101 KXL
May 29 • 6:38 PM

B_MAY_OREG_144

welcome back alarm his lies and joe well you know I have a dog in the fight on this one I don't
have any really direct personal experience with suicide but when I see folks writing about
rational suicide those two words put in the same sentence rational so aside and perhaps society
should start talking about mom rational those sides versus irrational and suicide being treated
150

as a terminal illness I’m not in favor of suicide I’m actively opposed to a friend came to me and
said i've been thinking about suicide I would do what I could to talk them out of it I even do that
for a stranger not even a friend so I read this piece by Wesley smith about the focus on suicide
prevention were eroding and help medicine in the modern world is trying to find good reasons
to say it's okay to commit suicide Wesley welcome back to the program this is a stunning kind
of argument that's being made thank you martha hello to your audience you know i've been
covering these assisted suicide euthanasia movement for 26 years which was pretty shocking to
me because I never expected to be involved in that and that issue this long I and all that time I
have noticed that he had once a small above commitment also cited suicide prevention has
been eroding and one of the reasons for that I think is the promotion of assisted suicide itself I
mean it is a promotional sums of assad so once you accept the idea that assisted suicide or
euthanasia is an acceptable answer to the difficulty of terminal illnesses were and some places
disability and mental illness from his employer no longer an anti-suicide society yet most your
name I saw him he reflects a diving catch them all flow in the mental health professionals
psychiatrists koji social work etc so there has been a majority but a growing view as you
mentioned in the introduction that comes to the floods are rational and those should not be
opposed that the purpose of a mental health professional or any rational suicide if they help
suicidal person go through decision-making process that is an impulsive and that isn't just based
on a whim but that these two-sided be bad that affect mental health professional has a rational
I mean applying a mental health professional own personal bad you've then you dad's suicide
should be permitted and perhaps even facilitated irrational suicide for to say a teenager who
whose boyfriend leaves her money she wants to kill yourself should be opposed they say I am
for that's an example of an irrational to the side you also see that him need a suicide prevention
campaign becoming with some exceptions obviously increasingly left they've all left because
the media seemed less interested in metta issue and more interested in be more provocative
issue promoting assisted suicide doing a story about suicide going away party is like the new
york times without its front page the l.a. times is donna others and so you find yourself in a
situation where I don't think we can call yourself an anti-suicide culture anymore knowing and
to me wesley and know people sometimes tell me that I’m to black and white but hey I don't
think you can be a little bit in favor of suicide anymore than you can be a little bit pregnant it's
it's either in favor of every or you're not and once you start down that road is like the old
church children oak about the young lady says your show you're suggesting a prostitute nieces
know we've already established that we're just negotiating the price in this case you have a
society that says well we used to be against all suicides now we're in fear we're actually in favor
of some of them but only the right ones and you leave it up to us they know these people I
guess the people of society decide which ones are justified in which ones are gone right and
and good for the think people would say why you can't be black and white and everything is
gray would never say that about smoking just as one example I also of course we can be black
and white there's nobody out there saying you know we would prefer that you not small but if
you decide to so please use a filter cigarette at a time how you doing anti-smoking campaign
you do an anti-smoking campaign with an unequivocal message that smoking is bad for your
health that can cause cancer that makes you think and so forth the shouldn't have to be true so
aside you cannot you know the idea here that we want to god I hate this article I wrote in the
review new era of advocates and else saying well we shouldn't even call it commit suicide
151

because the term commits suicide imply that the sony full roots wrong we don't want you know
a good cause people stigma how bob you wanna say people why it's you know one of the things
that saves lives and our art is tear pressure the way people perceive that they will be pushed
sweet if you turn still fighting to just two choices like any other wife decision are how they've
ever been we might make it then you're going to end up with want people committing suicide
because they will not be restrained by the fear that they will that their decision will be looked
upon corley I just think that for abandonment and it's cool I think so too and I think it's normal
things something that is tremendously damaging especially it's on an issue where the
government has a dog in the fight the government and especially if we were to go down the
path toward Medicare for all single payer of some other kind of form the government has an
incentive to see that as many people who are terminally ill or medically problematic that would
include mentally ill prop problematic where you could pour enormous resources into trying to
help a person with mental problems and still get no result the government has a dog in the fight
because they have a vested financial interest and seeing as many of those people go away as
possible let me give you a specific example of the precise akerson what you just said euthanasia
have just been ahead with legal live a few years ago by the supreme court of Canada all across
the country we're talking lethal injection euthanasia in Ontario bates table at the medical
college which is like the country medical association died the ethics of doctors who wish to not
participate in killing patients based on religion conscience the Ontario medical college said that
any doctor who was asked by a deeply qualified patient to be killed I love Steve they're doing a
good deed himself or herself more engaged in what was called an effective phone that is find a
doctor that they know will be willing to kill another words every doctor in Ontario Canada has
to be complicit in euthanasia have as part of being hey yeah professional doctor some doctors
often makes a split second and Canada have and explicit protections and its charter which is
like our constitution protecting quote freedom of conscience and religion pacific very
unequivocal of even stronger than the first amendment which protects religious the free
exercise of religion and conscience and religion and what could be more apt than a doctor
saying I don't want to commit homicide because that's what we're talking about we're talking
euthanasia the killing of a human being by another human being I court of appeals just ruled
that the cons of a single-payer health system because everyone have a right to equal and
equitable access under that system and because I got you know leave the entire system at stake
and all patients being treated equally that the doctors right to freedom of conscience and
religion lieu of this to the non-charter right to receive legal health care paid for by the
government I mean friend and the courts said if you don't like that than for example if your
oncologist become hair transplant person you do haile clogs the idea of forcing experienced
doctors to choose between committing homicide or hurt going into that area practice that
they're not active in or getting out of medicine is really warring not the least of which is the
catcher huge brain drain that can occur when you're telling experienced oncologist they have to
kill the patient non makes no sense at all you can read the whole piece in national review online
Wesley smith is the author of these senior followed the discovery institute center on human
exceptional ism which unfortunately about exceptionalism seems to be eroding under the force
of government Wesley thank you very much appreciate the time.

152

KATU-POR (ABC)
May 29 • 9:05 PM

B_MAY_OREG_145

deb: new at 6:00, a new study shows 13 reasons why led to a jump in teen suicides. the netflix
show debuted two years ago. researchers found suicide rates rose 21.7% in the three-month
period after the show was released. they went up 12.4% among boys in the same age range.
the show's producer wrote a guest column in the hollywood reporter saying other independent
research shows the show had a positive impact on bullying. experts say most mental health
crises are temporary and will pass. if you need to talk to someone you can call the national
lifeline at 1-800-273-talk or text "home" to 741741. there's more information available on
suicidepreventionlifeline.org
KHQ (NBC)
May 29 • 9:12 PM

B_MAY_WASH_111

"back in 2017, I lost a really good friend to suicide he was 22 year, nobody saw it coming, I
didn't see it coming, many of us didn't. but that wasn't the only time suicide would rear its
head. aaron "and then about six months ago, I lost my uncle to suicide with the memories of
both fresh in his mind... the call to action and awareness was a simple. climb the equivalent of
mount everest to help raise money and awareness. nats of leaves rustling the northern idaho
crisis center... located on kootenai health's campus... is a non-profit where those dealing with
mental health support and help issues can get the they need... 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. aaron rittenour "and I ask myself 'if my friend would've known about nihc or my uncle
knew about places where you can go to find help rittenour hopes to complete the climb in 20 to
24 hours... with breaks and re- fueling included... but the goal... awareness. "there is help out
there, there is places where you can go and get help and your life is worth far more than you
could ever imagine and there are people out there who truly do care for you and we want to
find you help." in cda, am, khq. adam thank you... take a moment to write this number down: 1800-273- 8255. that's the national suicide prevention lifeline. again... 1-800-273- 8255... they're
open 24 hours a day... seven days a week.
KAYU (FOX)
May 30 • 1:11 AM

B_MAY_WASH_112

aaron rittenour "back in 2017, I lost a really good friend to suicide he was 22 years old, nobody
saw it coming, I didn't see it coming, many of us didn't. but that wasn't the only time suicide
would rear its head. aaron "and then about six months ago, I lost my uncle to suicide with the
memories of both fresh in his mind... the call to action and awareness was a simple. climb the
equivalent of mount everest to help raise money and awareness. nats of leaves rustling the
northern idaho crisis center... located on kootenai health's campus... is a non-profit where
those dealing with mental health issues can get the support and help they need... 24 hours a
day, seven days a week. aaron rittenour "and I ask myself 'if my friend would've known about
nihc or my uncle knew about places where you can go to find help rittenour hopes to complete
the climb in 20 to 24 hours... with breaks and re- fueling included... but the goal... awareness.
153

"there is help out there, there is places where you can go and get help and your life is worth far
more than you could ever imagine and there are people out there who truly do care for you and
we want to find you help." adam thank you. if you or someone you know is considering
suicide... there's always someone to talk to. the national suicide prevention lifeline is open 24
hours a day.. seven days a week... at 1... 800... 273.. 82..55. there's still much if you or someone
you know is considering suicide... there's always someone to talk to. the national suicide preve
lifeline is open 24 hours a day.. seven days a week... at 1... 800... 273.. 82..55.
KAPP (ABC)
May 30 • 9:35 AM

B_MAY_WASH_113

a new study shows "13 reasons why" led to a jump in teen suicides. the netflix show debuted
two years ago -- but it took some time after that for the centers for disease control to release
its 20-17 suicide data. researchers found suicide rates among ten-to-19-year-old girls rose 21point-seven percent in the three-month period after the show was released. they went up 12point-four percent among boys in the same age range. netflix faced criticism for the show upon
its release for its realistic and graphic portrayals of bullying, rape and suicide.
KBNZ
May 30 • 11:12 AM

B_MAY_OREG_146

we have our first look at kanye west's very revealing new interview with david letterman. he
details his struggle with mental illness on the new season of the netflix show "my next guest
needs no introduction." it is a topic that kanye rarely discusses. letterman asked him how
bipolar disorder affects his brain. >> define it for me. what is the mechanism that is maiolfunctr
ning ois taking a break in your brain, do you know? >> I wouldn't be able to explainth at as
much. just, you know, because I’m not a doctor. I can just tellou y what I’m fe eling at the time.
and I feel aei hghtened connection with the ramping up. it is a health issue. this is like a
sprained brain, like having a sprained ankle. if someone has a sprained ankle, you're not going
to push on him more. >> right. >> with us, once our brain gets to a point of spraining, people do
everything toak me it worse.>> now, kanye west says he is undoder a ctor's care, he uses
alternative treatment methods but thinks medication may work for others with bipolar
disorder. dr. tara narula is with us now. a lot of people applauding him for speaking out, saying
it could certainly help others. did you understand what he was saying? you agree with what
he's saying? >> I’m applauding him and every other celebrity that comes out and talks about
their mental health illness. this is a real struggle for so many americans. one in five are dealing
with this. many of them are suffering in silence. they're suffering with shame and guilt. they're
suffering alone. and they're not getting the care and the treatment they need. >> you can't see
mental illness. >> you cannot. that's part of the issue, I think. it is not a tumor or mass you can
see. it is not a plaque in a heart artery that I can show you. the pain is real. some have zribed it
eddescribed it as being worse than the most physical pain. bipolar is basically a mood disorder,
characterized in fluctuations in mood, energy activity and ability to function on a daily basis. it
swings between these very high highs and low lows. it affects 2.5% of the population. it can be
misdiagnosed for many years. when not treated properly it can wreak havoc on a patient or
154

person's financial life, personal life, work life. it can be associated with increased risk of suicide.
we know that about 10 to 15% of bipolar patients die with suicide. bravo to kanye. I think it is
hard to explain as like. >> great analogy, very graphic and interesting. >> I read something last
night that somebody wrote, behind my smile is a breaking heart, behind my laugh I’m falling
apart. behind my eyes are tears at night and behind my body is a soul trying to fight. these are
warriors fighting every day. >> very lonely. >> we need to emphasize and support them in this
country better than we do. >> thank you. >> well put. >>> the new season of my next guest
needs no introduction starts tomorrow on netflix. for names of mental health providers you can
call the helpline at 1-800-662-help
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 30 • 2:53 PM

B_MAY_WASH_114

you may know that there is something. anxiety and depression is skyrocketing with teenagers
and kids in general. but with teens, we need to approach that subject. what do you
recommend? >> make it specific about your child. what are the things that are worrying you or
stressing you? what are the things that I need to know about how to support you this school
year or this summer. and then, who can you go to if you are having a hard time. if you cannot
come to me as a parent, who are other adults you can go to? >> those are good questions. then
they have that in their mind. >> are there signs that parents can look forward that their children
are depressed or ve suicidal ideation? >> ab they are not sleeping well or their eating patterns
have changed. the grades have changed. they are not interested in sports and activities that
they were once interested in. maybe being into and not talk talking that up to being a teenager
but asking them what it is about for them and let them know that there are resources. >> the
teenage years are a time of change in general. is there a rule of thumb for separating something
that is normal tumultuous things versus what to take serious? >> maybe go back to things like I
noticed her grades have fallen. what's going on with back? and being able to normalize when
kids are struggling. you can say that some kids have thoughts of suicide. is that happening for
you? do you need to let them know that you can get them help and they don't need to continue
to struggle with that. >> that seems really important. you are not just asking if they have these
thoughts. you want to let them know that there is help available. if you have a child that you
think they be in danger or thinking about these things or is bullied or has these things that are
part of their story. what is the best way to intervene? how do you find them the right help? >>
if you have a relationship with your primary care physician, you can go into them for support
and resources. you can call your county and state or national crisis lines. you can also go to your
insurance panel for child focused therapist. >> so, there is the zero suicide initiative that seattle
children's is part of. can you describe that . >> zero suicide initiative is really looking at suicide
prevention and trying to intervene early. once they have an attempt it is too late. at seattle
children's we screen kids ages 10 and up that come to us to be able to catch those kids when
those thoughts are happening and to get them that support early. >> it seems like times have
changed. we used to think that kids did not think about these things but now we know that
they do. so this idea of incorporating this as part of wellness checks is so important. >>
absolutely. it is invisible. if we don't ask we won't now. >> absolutely. I want to bring something
to your attention. just this week there were three suicides related to shootings. two were
155

survivors of the massacre at marjory stoneman douglas high school. it just goes to show that
trauma is something that can live on for a period of time. it can transfer from somebody that
has witnessed trauma. how do we take that into account and how do we think about that with
teenagers? >> I think we need to remember that teenagers have never encountered that
trauma before. they have no reference of how they can get through this or if they can. and
again, being direct around these thoughts or memories. there might be guilt or increased stress
or anxiety or fear about going back to school. and how are we going cope and how can I
support you as an adult in your life to help you through this time? >> the help that you want to
give us the help that they need to take. thank you, so much. to learn more about the zerosuicide initiative at seattle children's, take a look at the links to resources on our website,
www.king5.com/new-day- nw. thank you, erika.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
May 31 • 1:29 AM

B_MAY_WASH_115

everyone views stopped for a moment and made sacrifices for another person who you will
never meet you stop for a moment and made sacrifices for someone who's made his sacrifice
for our country we can agree to disagree on a war policy what war we should be and for how
long what the conditions of those wars are but we have to agree that while we're at war those
who served don't get to choose whether they go or not these guys bury their friends they
suffered wounds they suffered serious physical wounds and in most cases even worse
emotional wounds and you have focused you have helped you have responded in ways that the
reduced me to clinton onions I gotta tell you because of of the things you do every day every
day I get a different email every day somebody showed up with supplies actress parents told
him he was taking somebody showed up and help in this a road trip intended to kill himself way
a veteran shown up have called couple months ago from executive when got a 5th whiskey put
his director guy walked through the door pistol the side of he said he had said goodbye was
driving down the back of the building we're going to kill himself he heard us talking on the air
that day on our show about can hope it's free to the veteran is no government funds is no
requirement it won't cost him anything there's a veteran who have suffered through ptsd will
be waiting on the other end of the phone they got the phone call he's on his way to kill himself
he said meet the missing and he said I didn't believe it I thought what I call a lab would be
busier nobody be there that's not true there was a veteran with served for appointments been
severely wounded lost an arm who answered the phone was there for him took care of him
now that has been watched his kids graduate from high school he's going to be a good husband
he's he's going to get to live out a full life so you know veteran who needs a help our veterans
can hope or waiting it will cost about 8.7 7.7 ptsd 8.7 7.7 7.7 we thank you for supporting.
KOMO-SEA (ABC)
May 31 • 1:29 AM

B_MAY_WASH_116

new at 10:00, there's rape kits sitting untested across the united states. >> as part of his
investigation, mark hyman visited one state where critical reforms are being made to speed up
the process. >> reporter: megan rondini took her life after she raped. her parents were stunned
156

to learn her rape case was closed without sending her rape kit to a crime lab for dna analysis. to
this day they have more questions than answers. >> we don't know where the rape kit is. >>
and it's never been examined. >> reporter: never examined, and we learned megan's case is not
unique. hundreds of thousands of rape victims nationwide have never had their rape kits
analyzed. >> we needed to test every kit and do a better job of tracking those things and being
accountable to the public. >> reporter: matthew gamut is the director of the idaho state police
lab. they launched the nation's first statewide system for victims to track the status of their
rape kit. it forces the state to account for every single rape kit. >> they just put their kit number
into the system, into the website and they'll be able to see what's happened with their kit. >>
reporter: kristen houser works at the sexual assault organization. >> they need to know what's
happening to them. >> reporter: she said adopting better procedures can do a lot more than
solving just one crime. >> we have to keep in mind that many offenders are serial offenders. >>
reporter: we discovered many states have tremendous backlogs in our investigation and no
statewide tracking system. the vast majority don't demand the testing of rape kits at all.
entering known dna into the national database could help solve more than 2 million crimes
with unidentified dna as well. >> the more we rely on dna to solve crimes, we need to increase
the resources. >> reporter: resources like idaho's ground breaking rape kit tracking system. >>
this is a solution. >> reporter: it's solutions like these that might have made a difference and
brought closure to megan's case. >> I think that's why I’m still here on this earth. to make sure
this has an ending. >> reporter: idaho is offering their system free to every state in the nation.
>> we all want to do the best thing for victims. >> just over a month ago, washington's governor
jay inslee signed a bill expanding the guidelines for rape kit testing in our state. it stops the
destruction of any untested rape kit until june 30th, 2020. then starting in 2021 it sets a
deadline of 45 days to test any new rape kit.
KONG-SEA
May 31 • 9:54 AM

B_MAY_WASH_117

what are the things that are worrying you or stressing you? what are the things that I need to
know about how to support you this school year or this summer. and then, who can you go to if
you are having a hard time. if you cannot come to me as a parent, who are other adults you can
go to? >> those are good questions. then they have that in their mind. >> are there signs that
parents can look forward that their children are depressed or have suicidal ideation? >> ab they
are not sleeping well, or their eating patterns have changed. the grades have changed. they are
not interested in sports and activities that they were once interested in. maybe being into and
not talk talking that up to being a teenager but asking them what it is about for them and let
them know that there are resources. >> the teenage years are a time of change in general. is
there a rule of thumb for separating something that is normal tumultuous things versus what to
take serious? >> maybe go back to things like I noticed her grades have fallen. what's going on
with back? and being able to normalize when kids are struggling. you can say that some kids
have thoughts of suicide. is that happening for you? do you need to let them know that you can
get them help and they don't need to continue to struggle with that. >> that seems really
important. you are not just asking if they have these thoughts. you want to let them know that
there is help available. if you have a child that you think they be in danger or thinking about
157

these things or is bullied or has these things that are part of their story. what is the best way to
intervene? how do you find them the right help? >> if you have a relationship with your primary
care physician , you can go into them for support and resources. you can call your county and
state or national crisis lines. you can also go to your insurance panel for child focused therapist.
>> so, there is the zero-suicide initiative that seattle children's is part of. can you describe that .
>> zero suicide initiative is really looking at suicide prevention and trying to intervene early.
once they have an attempt it is too late. at seattle children's we screen kids ages 10 and up that
come to us to be able to catch those kids when those thoughts are happening and to get them
that support early. >> it seems like times have changed. we used to think that kids did not think
about these things but now we know that they do. so this idea of incorporating this as part of
wellness checks is so important. >> absolutely. it is invisible. if we don't ask we won't now. >>
absolutely. I want to bring something to your attention. just this week tre were three suicides
related to shootings. two were survivors of the massacre at marjory stoneman douglas high
school. it just goes to show that trauma is something that can live on for a period of time. it can
transfer from somebody that has witnessed trauma. How do we take that into account and how
do we think about that with teenagers? >> I think we need to remember that teenagers have
never encountered that trauma before. they have no reference of how they can get through
this or if they can. and again, being direct around these thoughts or memories. there might be
guilt or increased stress or anxiety or fear about going back to school. and how are we going to
cope and how can I support you as an adult in your life to help you through this time? >> the
help that you want to give us the help that they need to take. thank you, so much. to learn
more about the zero-suicide initiative at Seattle children's.
KCPQ-SEA (FOX)
May 31 • 11:45 AM

B_MAY_WASH_118

a recent government study revealed some startling numbers 20 military veterans a day are
taking their own lives and as we continue to honor our military veterans here on cue 13 news
we bring in james spider the president and washington state director of the national alliance to
end veteran suicide. good morning to you. thanks for coming on morning. so when you hear
those numbers 20 veterans a day are taking their lives and we t that into context for us. not our
nation. it shouldn't happen at all. we should be making sure that we have zero veteran suicides
with the public help the community's help. and the government so I saw another number 20
percent of american suicides are military veterans. that is stunning. Yes absolutely stunning. so
are the u.s. military has been at war for nearly two decades now. the vet population is growing
every day. I mean is that part of the problem that the system is strained. yes we have six
hundred thousand just here in the state of washington. ok. so I’m thinking most likely all those
numbers and they continue and continue to grow. make a very hard strain on not only the v.a.
system but all of these community organizations trying to reach out to help people. what type
of veteran is most at risk for taking their own life. so currently in twenty nineteen our numbers
are going up for unfortunately the vietnam veterans lady veterans and obviously gentlemen
getting out in the first year. ok. so numbers are going staggeringly high for the older veterans
this year. ok. so what resources are available to them. well yes they have they I’m hotline
number of course our organization is basically listening and reliably delivering to what the
158

veterans need to help save their lives. ok. and we have an education where we do a operation
veteran's workshop which is the brain science basically helps them combat the post-traumatic
stress disorder and live a better life. what percentage of veterans are dealing with that type of
disorder? it's about 62 percent of the veterans are out in this world postmaster or sawyer. so
education part of your group's mission you recently convinced the governor to officially
recognize the issue of veterans suicide. yes we did. we got this proclamation signed by the
governor. and this is bringing out September 16th through September 22nd as veterans suicide
awareness week. that is phenomenal. and what does it say to you that the governor would see
the need and make such a proclamation. I think that the governor realized a lot of things that
the rest of government probably doesn't that there are a huge problem of veterans suicide. I
honestly think it's an epidemic and not just suicides if there's that out there right now that's
struggling or a family member of that what would you tell them. and what would you
encourage them to do. I would encourage anyone to just basically reach out to a veteran have a
cup of coffee with them just talk to them. everyone that has a contact with a veteran every day
is probably saved that veteran's life that's huge. that is huge. and james I appreciate you
appreciate the mission that you're on right now and for more information you can head to the
national alliance to end veterans’ suicide. that web site and the number two evey s dot org.
thank you very thank you.
KOMO-AM (Radio)
May 31 • 1:53 PM

B_MAY_WASH_119

a soldier turned Hop finds fellow that on the verge of suicide as ABC Pete Holmes tells us they
push an airline was determined to keep that from happening army veteran Daniel Sparano
malice toward a police officer gets a tip while working a part time job over memorial day
weekend it looks like he's got a job I don't now toronto find the man leaning backwards over a
100 foot drop into the chattahoochee River said the 54 year-old man tells around he too is a
veteran which made the when he decides no one dies today there's a struggle this around a
stage fielder I think police training is out with its compassion.
KUOW-FM (Radio)
May 31 • 3:49 PM

B_MAY_WASH_120

today I read this story in rolling stone is very long but very powerful about an epidemic out
there among middle aged white man committing suicide mostly off incident overwhelmingly
they have alcohol problems two inches there's this every segment of society has different
problems maladies and issues overcome there's this growing problem though with middle aged
white man ought them mostly because the economy is not producing the kind of jobs they used
to having their self-worth is denigrate it opioids alcohol and the you the suicide rate is just
going through the roof and even seeping into politics and david brooks has written a lot about
this about the most danger seen america's loneliness right now and so those two things
together very powerful and we need we need to think about that I think also those of us who
are raising sons to make sure that they stay on the right track but I will also point to that middle
aged men of color and people of color for decades had been facing issues with regard to
159

economic opportunity and things like that and so I want to make sure we don't happen to like
now that it's affecting middle aged white man it's something we should pay attention to I think
the question we should ask ourselves is what's happening to many general in our in our country
but not forget the fact that there have been commuted color for a long long time that has faced
many insurmountable issues and brand I want to thank you for sharing that story and allowing
us to share to I really appreciate the opportunity to give a talk about it.
KIRO-SEA (CBS)
May 31 • 8:25 PM

B_MAY_WASH_121

when jordan fell to his death beneath these two bridges gears county medical examiner dr.
thomas clark said it was a suicide. his family says that he was wrong it was an accident. now a
judge says clark has to explain his ruling. >> this is pierce county medical examiner dr. thomas
clark testifying in a murder trial five and half years ago. today the first county court judge says
that clark must also answer questions about the death of jordan. >> I just feel like it is a step
towards the resolution that you see.>> I think it is. I think we're moving the right way. >> the
16-year-old died when he was goofing around with a friend in the early morning hours of july 6
2017. clark insisted that the death was a suicide. even though police investigators believed that
he was wrong. >> this is a case that we defer to the medical examiner. we believe that it was
much more likely and accidental anath.>> it was not suicide.>> michael says after his sons
death he tried repeatedly to talk to clark to ask him to change the debt certificate. but he says
clark would never meet with him or take his calls. today his attor ey joan nelson says that only
the court can compel clark to explain his decision to call the death intentional. >> there ee n
opportunity for him to cross- examine and ascertain what clark did. whether or not he was
guilty or not.>> in this case we may take the deposition of the medical exam. >> today the judge
denied the pierce county attorney's motion to dismiss the claim. granting a motion by their
attorney to answer questions in a deposition on their own. >> michael says that they named his
family's to give answers in his son’s death. it was not his hope we get answers that we were
looking for.
KATU-POR (ABC)
May 31 • 9:10 PM

B_MAY_OREG_147

deb: new tonight, there is an estimated quarter of a million dna rape kits sitting untested across
the u.s. >> steve: as part of this nationwide investigation, mark president bush highman visited
one state where critical reforms are being made to speed up the process. >> reporter: megan
took her life in 2016, months after reporting she had been raped. >> she always felt accused.
she was never -- s never felt like she was the victim. >> reporter: her devastated parents were
stunned to learn the sheriff's department in her college town closed her rape case without
sending her rape kit to a crime lab for dna analysis. to this day they have more questions than
answers. >> we don't know where the rape kit is. >> it's never been examined? >> never
examined. >> reporter: and we learned megan's case is not unique. hundreds of thousands of
rape victims nationwide have 97 had their rape kits analyzed. >> we needed to test every kit.
we needed to do a better job of tracking those things and being accountable to the public. >>
160

reporter: matew nation's first statewide system for victims to track the status of the rape kit at
any moment. empowering survivors who are often kept in the dark regarding their cases. and it
forces the state to account for every single rape kit. >> they just put their kit number into the
system, into the website and they'll be able to see what's happened with their kit. >> reporter:
kristin hauser is an executive with the national sexual violence resource center. >> the least we
can do is keep people informed about where the investigation is and communicate on a regular
basis so they know what is happening to them. >> reporter: hauser told us adopting better
procedures can do a lot more than solve just one crime. >> we have to keep in mind many
offenders are serial offenders. >> reporter: in our nationwide investigation, we discovered
many states have tremendous rape kit backlogs and no statewide tracking system. the vast
majority don't demand the testing of rape kits at all. testing rape kit backlogs can close many
other crimes as well. entering known dna into the national database could help solve more than
2 million crimes they have unidentified dna. >> the more that we're relying on forensic
evidence to solve sexual assaults as well as other kinds of crimes, we need to be increase in the
resources. >> reporter: resources like idaho's groundbreaking rape kit tracking system. >> issues
have solutions. and this is one that has a solution. >> reporter: it's solutions like these that
might have made a difference and brought closure to megan's case. >> I think that's why I’m
still here on this earth. to make sure this has an ending. >> reporter: idaho is offering its rape kit
tracking system free to every state in the nation. >> we all want to do the best thing for victims.
>> reporter: for inside your world investigates, I’m mark highman in boise, Idaho.
KING-SEA (NBC)
May 31 • 9:12 PM

B_MAY_WASH_122

tonight in our series "america under pressure," with the suicide rate in america rising, we want
to take a closer look at law enforcement. in 2018, more police officers died by suicide than died
in the line of duty and this year's on track to be even worse. the los angeles police department
has made it part of their mission to prevent more deaths >> reporter: before los angeles police
officers head out on patrol, there's another kind of check-in. >> what's going on in here >>
reporter: 13 psychologists in the field. officers can seek anonymous counseling. and partners
are encouraged to look out for each other >> we have so many officers that would do anything
in the world to help somebody and yet we can't help them so this is meant to change that. >>
reporter: lapd officer david swails took hundreds of body cam videos. >> go back inside. go back
inside. >> he would come home every day after work and he would downloa the camera and
then he'd relive it at experience this and the end of the day. >> you're a good guy I know you're
trying to do right for your family. >> reporter: david's wife melissa said he always treated
people with respect >> hey, little buddies. >> reporter: he loved animals and would do anything
for his four kids. >> he would have to work night shifts so he could take us to school. >>
reporter: but three years ago it was the kids who told melissa something wasn't right with dad
later that week, they were supposed to go to disneyland on the youngest boy's second birthday
but david had locked himself in a bathroom. >> I locked down and that's when I found him. >>
I’m so sorry. >> I just still don't understand how we went from planning to go to disneyland for
dinner to sadly having to plan a funeral. >> reporter: david never took advantage of the lapd's
counselors. >> I wish he would have called. he knew. he knew what was available to him he was
161

afraid that if he -- if the other officers knew they wouldn't want to work with him. >> reporter:
a year after david's death, melissa reached out to the police department for her own mental
health and found support. >> ironically, the therapy and the services that would have been
afforded to him were afforded to me. >> reporter: it gave her the strength to organize a walk
for the lapd to raise awareness about suicide. >> how many people showed up? >> I had
anticipated maybe 20 to 50 and over 800 people showed up. >> reporter: she hopes speaking
out will show her boys and other officers it's okay to get help. >> I wanted him, something good
to come from something so awful. >> melissa now works with the group blue help for police
officers or anyone needing help tonight the national suicide prevention lifeline is 1-800-2738255.

162

